<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2 Final//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Minutes June 12, 2002</TITLE>
<META NAME="Generator" CONTENT="TextPad 4.4">
<META NAME="Author" CONTENT="?">
<META NAME="Keywords" CONTENT="?">
<META NAME="Description" CONTENT="?">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#FF0000" VLINK="#800000" ALINK="#FF00FF">

<center>
<H3>Parkwood Residents Association<br>
Minutes - June 12, 2002</H3>
</center>
<P><P>

<B><U>Approval of Minutes</U></B><BR>
March minutes were distributed and approved.
<P>
<B><U>Treasurers Report</U></B><BR>
Chris St.Clair reported the following:
<blockquote>
	Currently PRA has 180 members.<BR>
	She has collected $900.00 in dues.<BR>
	$630.00 has been spent for communication (newsletter, notices, etc.).<BR>
	Currently there is $1008.98 in the PRA bank account.<BR>
</blockquote>
<P>
<B><U>Old Business</U></B><BR>
Liz Brennan reported that PRA sent a letter to the County Council in support of Blair
Ewing's bill to redirect funds in order to restore the original school modernization
schedule.  The bill, however, did not get the support needed to pass.
<P>
Membership voted to raise the PRA dues from $5 to $10 annually per family.  Discussion
included request for a budget for membership review.
<P>
It was announced that the listserve and website are up and running.  The website
can be accessed at
<A HREF="http://www.parkwoodresidents.org">www.parkwoodresidents.org</A>.
<P><BR>

<B><U>Committee Reports</U></B><BR>
<P>
<B>Block Captain:</B>  Kathy Byars reported that 25 people have volunteered to be
block captains.  We still need representatives from Cedar, Parkwood, Wildwood,
Ashwood, Greenfield, Franklin, Everett, Thornwood and Conifer.  Block captains will be
asked to distribute information and let the Hospitality Committee know when a new
neighbor moves in.
<P>
<B>Gardening Club:</B>  Jean Wirching and Claire Murphy reported that the Club had
its first meeting tonight.  Immediate goal is to clean up the island at Saul and Cedar.  An
estimate of $262.00 to weed, edge and mulch has been secured.  Membership voted to
allow spending of $262.00 for clean up.
<P>
Claire Murphy has contacted the county regarding mowing of the islands in Parkwood.
She asked that the county contractor be asked to meet their obligations.  She is going to
write again and ask that the county commit to mowing at least 8 times per year.
<P>
Future goals include contracting for monthly maintenance, establishing a volunteer
calendar, adding more perennials, budgeting for seasonal annuals, replacing the sign, and
adding a sign at Beach Drive.
Membership suggestions included immediate attention to the sign and replacing grass
with another type of groudcover.
<P>
<B>Sound Barrier:</B>  Liz Brennan read a report from Rich Warren.  Catherine
Wyngate of 9800 Parkwood Drive has previously corresponded with the county
regarding barriers.  It was suggested that she get together with the committee.  It was
suggested that we purchase a meter.  The point was made that the issue is really a
political one and that is how we should proceed.
<P>
<B>Welcoming Committee:</B>  Liz Brennan read a report from Karen Schuler.  The
committee is working on ways to encourage participation by others than block captains.
Some ideas are a semi-annual coffee and a PRA brochure.  They are creating community
packets for new residents.  Membership voted to give the committee $100.00 for
supplies.
<P><BR>

<B><U>Topic for Discussion - Traffic</U></B><BR>
Tom St.Clair reported that he is looking for a co-chair.  The Coalition of Kensington
Communities (CKC) holds traffic and transportation meetings.  During May and June
they established their guiding principles.  Frequently raised issues include:  Congestion at
intersection of Summit and Knowles and Knowles and Connecticut;  high speed on
Connecticut south of Knowles;  extending MARC rail beyond Union Station;  weekend
MARC service;  U-turns on 355 (Tom asked to be on task force of neighbors addressing
issue);  Beltway on-ramp at Connecticut Avenue;  establishment of Purple line in or
outside of beltway connecting Silver Spring to Bethesda and /or PG county to NVA.
<P>
Tom asked for discussion from residents regarding traffic concerns.  Concerns raised
included :  areas of  Parkwood Drive that have no sidewalks or speed bumps (needs to be
agreed to and pursued block by block);  fast traffic on Saul Road;  and a footbridge
connecting Beach Drive with Grosvenor Metro (CKC is already working on that -
Barbara Wilson representing).  Finally, it was noted that measures to slow traffic on
Connecticut Avenue south of Knowles might add to congestion problems.
<P><BR>

<B><U>Speakers - Neighbors for a Better Montgomery:  Dan Tuten and Randy Alton</U></B><BR>
Neighbors for a Better Montgomery is an independent, non partisan organization seeking
to protect and enhance the quality of life in Montgomery County by being the leading
voice for political action.  Their mission is to ensure that citizens, not developers or other
special interests, control the future of Montgomery County.  They can be contacted at
<A HREF="http://www.neighborspac.org">www.neighborspac.org</A> or P.O. Box 1847,
Rockville, MD  20849.  Liz Brennan is going
to sign on as a regional chair on Neighbors for a Better Montgomery.
<P><BR>

<B><U>KP Elementary School Modernization</U></B><BR>
The Planning Board was to meet June 13th to review MCPS plans.  A motion was put
forth to have PRA send a letter of support for the KP modernization.  Concerns were
raised by the membership regarding the new KP design, the design process, and future
bussing into Parkwood.  After discussion, the motion was passed 24 to 15.  Liz Brennan
will send letter that will reflect community concerns.
<P><BR>

<B><U>Next Meetings - Kensington Parkwood Elementary School:</U></B><BR>
Tuesday, September 17th<BR>
Tuesday, December 10th<BR>

</BODY>
</HTML>
