<!doctype html public "-//w3c//dtd html 3.2//en">

<html>

<head>
<title>Minutes 3/12/02</title>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Arachnophilia 4.0">
<meta name="FORMATTER" content="Arachnophilia 4.0">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#ffffff" text="#000000" link="#0000ff" vlink="#800080" alink="#ff0000">

<center>
<H3>Parkwood Residents Association<br>
Minutes - March 12, 2002</H3>
</center>
<P><P>
<B><U>Welcome / Introductions</U></B><br>
Dan Shepherdson, President, introduced himself and Jerry Miller, Treasurer.  Both
stepped down from their positions effective 3/12/02.  The last PRA meeting was held
approximately 18 months ago.
<P>
<B><U>Elections</U></B><br>
The following residents ran unopposed for PRA positions and were elected to office:<br>
<table  border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="2">
	<tr>
		<td >
			President
		</td>
		<td >
			Liz Brennan
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td >
			Vice President&nbsp;&nbsp;
		</td>
		<td >
			Jan Rothman
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td >
			Treasurer
		</td>
		<td >
			Chris St. Clair
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td >
			Secretary
		</td>
		<td >
			Debbie Zwick
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<P>
<B><U>Treasurers Report</U></B><br>
Jerry Miller reported that the current balance is approximately $680.00
<P>
<B><U>Block Captains</U></B><br>
Valerie Gottron spoke about resurrecting the block captain system.  Kathy Byars has
volunteered to assist in organization and recruitment of volunteers.  Block captains would
be responsible for disseminating PRA information and notifying Welcome Committee of
new residents.
<P>
Questions asked were:  How many households in Parkwood? <I> (913)</I>  What are the
boundaries of Parkwood and can we put a map in the next newsletter?  <I>(Parkwood is
bordered by Westbrook Lane, Beach Drive, Parkwood Drive and Cedar Lane)</I>
<P>
<B><U>Welcome Committee</U></B><br>
Valerie Gottron spoke about creating a Welcome Committee.  Volunteers will be
contacted from the resident survey.  It was suggested that new residents be given
packages/folders with area information and PRA newsletter and directory.
<P>
<B><U>Directory</U></B><br>
Valerie Gottron spoke about putting together a Parkwood directory.  Dues paying
members would be included.  A committee will need to be formed to create the directory
and sell advertising to pay for it.
<P>
<B><U>Babysitting Co-op</U></B><br>
Valerie Gottron is interested in establishing a babysitting co-op.  She wants to find
someone to co-chair.  It was mentioned that Laura Roberts did a babysitting co-op
previously.
<P>
<B><U>Gardening Club</U></B><br>
Liz Brennan reported for Jean Wirching.  Jean is willing to co-chair.  She has been
paying her gardener to care for island at Saul and Cedar.  There was a suggestion to re-do
Parkwood signs.
<P>
<B><U>KP Elementary School</U></B><br>
Dan Shepherdson discussed the delayed modernization schedule.  KP, originally
scheduled for modernization during the 2002-2003 school year, is currently scheduled to
be rebuilt from the ground up in 2006.  Blair Ewing supports restoring the original
modernization schedule by redirecting 94 million dollars away from the Montrose
Parkway project, building natural gas refueling stations for busses, and the Strathmore
project.  The money would be directed to restoring the school modernization schedule,
affordable housing and green space.
<P>
Two residents expressed concern regarding the new KP design and design process.
<P>
After discussion, the PRA voted in favor of sending a letter in support of Blair Ewing's
proposal that would restore the modernization schedule.
<P>
<B><U>Sound Barriers and Traffic Issues</U></B><br>
It was established that there should be two separate committees to address each of these
issues individually.
<P>
<B><I>Regarding traffic,</I></B> Dan Shepherdson reported that stop signs have been placed at the
intersection of Saul Road and Parkwood Drive.  He said that they are still working on
getting lines painted on the roads at that intersection.  Residents expressed concerns
regarding other intersections and speeding.  It was agreed that there is a problem
throughout the community regarding traffic and that the PRA should form a group to
address laundry list of concerns.
<P>
The county has created a task force to examine the U-turn issue on Rockville Pike south
and address the concerns of the communities on either side of Rockville Pike between
Pooks Hill and Cedar Lanes.  Eliminating U-turns on Rockville Pike south severely limits
access to Parkwood and therefore directly affects the community.  It is the goal of the
PRA to gain representation on the county task force to ensure Parkwood has a voice in
the matter.
<P>
<B><I>Regarding sound barriers,</I></B> it was reported that a sound survey was done and only 12
houses on Parkwood drive qualify.  Sound barriers were therefore deemed not cost-
effective.  A resident reported that a proposal was put forth 10 - 15 years ago to put
sound barriers in the park, but that the Park Commission was not interested.  Question
raised regarding sending a letter to the Park Commission for support.
<P>
It was brought to the attention of the PRA that a Rock Creek Coalition exists.  The RCC
is comprised of 6 civic associations on both sides of the beltway and was established as a
result of issues surrounding the beltway.  The treasurer, Mr. ____ Wood?????, was
present at the PRA meeting.  It was suggested that we take our issue to the RCC for
support.
<P>
A motion was put forth to support sound abatement measures.  The motion passed.
<P>
Two residents volunteered to chair Sound Barrier Committee.
<P>
<B><U>Coalition of Kensington Communities</U></B><br>
Liz Brennan discussed the CKC and the committees formed at the last CKC meeting.
She discussed the need for the PRA to empower a group to represent Parkwood and
volunteers to serve on the committees.  A motion was put forth to identify representatives
to carry issues forward to the CKC.  The motion was passed.
<P>
<B><U>Re-opening of HOC Gym</U></B><br>
Liz Brennan reported that Rock Creek Hills, KenGar, Kensington Estates, and the Town
of Kensington support re-opening the gym and establishing a part time community
center.  HOC would like to move, but the county 6-year Capital Improvement Budget did
not support the move.  A proposal has been sent to the county for a part-time community
center and gym.  The proposal requests supervision 40 hours per week on weekends and
evenings.  Fundraisers would be held to acquire equipment.  A motion was made to
support the part-time community center as we work toward a full-time center in the
future.  The motion was passed.
<P>
<B><U>Skateboard Park at HOC</U></B><br>
Liz Brennan gave background information regarding the informal skateboard park at
HOC.  Skateboarders have responded to complaints regarding their behavior by
establishing a skateboarder code of ethics.  Local police and fire departments support the
skateboard park..  HOC reports no injuries or lawsuits.  A motion was made to send a
letter of support for the skateboard park from the PRA.  The motion was passed.
<P>
<B><U>Listserve/Website</U></B>
Being established.  Anyone interested should contact Liz or Rachel Loreto. <I>(Added by
webmaster: Rachel has turned over the website to Peter Mansbach.)</I>
<P>
<B><U>PRA meeting location and schedule</U></B><br>
A motion was made to meet quarterly.  The motion was  passed.
<P>
A  motion was made to raise PRA dues.  A motion to discuss the proposal and set an
amount to be put forward for voting at the next meeting was passed.
<P>
<B><U>Next Meetings</U></B><br>
<UL type="disc">
<li>Wednesday, June 12th
<li>Tuesday, September 17th
<li>Tuesday, December 10th
</UL>
Locations TBA



</body>

</html>