<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2 Final//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE></TITLE>
<META NAME="Generator" CONTENT="TextPad 4.4">
<META NAME="Author" CONTENT="Peter Mansbach">
<META NAME="Keywords" CONTENT="?">
<META NAME="Description" CONTENT="?">
</HEAD>
<P>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#0000ff" VLINK="#800080" ALINK="#FF0000" BACKGROUND="?">
<CENTER><B>
Parkwood Residents Association<BR>
Minutes &#151; December 8, 2003
</B></CENTER>
<P>
<B><U>Introduction and Welcome:</U></B><BR>
Liz Brennan introduced herself and the other officers.
<P>
<B><U>Approval of Minutes:</U></B><BR>
June minutes were distributed and approved.
<P>
<B><U>Membership Report:</U></B><BR>
Kitty Stone announced that dues are being collected now for 2004.  At present approximately
150 households are members of the PRA.
<P>
<B><U>CKC Report:</U></B><BR>
The Coalition of Kensington Communities is a group of 11 local civic associations that meets bi-
monthly.  Liz Brennan represents PRA on the CKC.
<P>
The CKC recently provided Park and Planning with a list of traffic <B>"hot spots"</B>.  Two that are
being corrected are:  1) The 24/7 left turn on to Cedar Lane from southbound Rockville Pike
has been approved for 2004 and will be implemented after some road changes are made; and
2)  a light has been added to Rockville Pike at Alta Vista to enable safer U-turns, however the
light has not been turned on.  Liz will call to find out why it isn't on yet and when they plan to
turn it on.
<P>
Another topic discussed was the <B>Countywide Bikeways Functional Master Plan</B>.  The PRA
and Kensington Estates wrote a letter to support better and safer bike accessibility to
Grosvenor Metro.
<P>
The CKC discussed the planned removal of <B>trash cans</B> from parks by the end of 2003.  The
CKC plans to monitor our local parks to see if there is a negative impact on our parks after the
trashcan removal.
<P>
The CKC also discussed the planned <B>Kensington Safeway</B> rebuild.  The CKC is primarily
concerned about traffic as it relates to the rebuild.  They looked at the traffic study, made
suggestions and approved the plan.  The PRA discussed the potential impact of  the planned
Starbucks on Caf&eacute; Monet.   A motion was made to write a letter supporting the renovated
Safeway, but expressing support for Caf&eacute; Monet and expressing a desire to not include
Starbucks in the renovation.  The motion passed 13-1.
<P>
<B><U>Old Business:</U></B><BR>
Tom Robertson reported on the status of the level 2 and 3 <B>Bioterrorism Facility</B> to be built at
the NE corner of Rt. 355 and Cedar lane at NIH.  It was unsuccessfully argued that locating the
lab at this spot is inviting an act of terrorism.  Other community organizations have also
expressed concern.  NIH has done a risk assessment, but it is not a public document.  NIH also
did a worst case scenario in which they simulated the release of Anthrax spores.  According to
their evaluation of the simulation, this would not be a problem for the surrounding communities.
Tom Robertson says he hopes to hear more regarding the risk assessment at the next committee
meeting.  Additionally, Chuck Floyd, a candidate for the 8<SUP>th</SUP>
Congressional District, said he will
be meeting with the director of NIH next week and will ask about our concerns.  He also
explained that, based on his work in the State Department with building embassies, construction
materials and methods are selected based on the risk assessment so as to harden the facility.
<P>
The <B>KPES modernization</B>, including a gym,  is expected to begin this summer.  Final approval
of the funds by the County Council will take place in May.  Liz Brennan suggested we ask the
architect to attend our March meeting to discuss the project and any impact it may have on the
neighborhood.
<P>
Richard Ransom provided an update on the appeal of 2001 <B>property tax assessments on
Martin's Addition to Chevy Chase View</B>.  The court dropped their case saying that they had
not exhausted the appeal process.  He was also told he can not represent anyone other than
himself.  He plans to continue to pursue the issue and suggests the PRA form a committee to
monitor tax assessments next year.  He will report back to the PRA in March.
<P>
<B><U>New Business:</U></B><BR>
Duncan has requested an additional $7.6 million in additional funds for the <B>Strathmore Arts
Center</B> project.  This request will be part of the budget he submits to the County Council to
vote on in May.  Currently, Strathmore is building an endowment, but that is growing slowly and
will not cover the needed funds.
<P>
Tom Robertson brought up that the number of <B>missing and sick trees</B> in our community has
increased.  Many have hit their life span.  He asked if we should begin asking the county now
about replacing these trees so that we are sure to have enough mature trees in the future.  It was
suggested that we ask an urban forester in to assess what we should do.  Liz Brennan
suggested we collect information from residents regarding sick and lost trees and possibly
having an urban forester in to speak at a future meeting.
<P>
New PRA members asked what could be done about the <B>beltway noise</B>.  Tom Robertson is
reviving the committee that will address this issue and is looking for volunteers for the
committee.
<P>
<B><U>Announcements and Adjournment:</U></B><BR>
Next meeting March 2004.<BR>
[webmaster's note: PRA elections will be held at the March meeting]
<P>
</BODY>
</HTML>
