TRANSCRIPTION
the Maryland Public Service Commission on Response of 3 Power Utilities
 
>> good evening, everybody, and welcome. If everyone could take their 
seats, we will get ready to start. I am the chair of the maryland 
public service commission. To my riding have commissioner larry brenner 
and commissioner kevin use. We are here tonight with our investigation 
into the utility' s of maryland electric companies performance during 
the recent storm. We are here specifically tonight to hear your 
comments. This is what we call an evening public, and hearing.
 
It is the first of eight we will be holding across the state as part of 
this case. You folks for montgomery county are getting the first 
opportunity to speak to us. We are here specifically , and from our 
point of view, critically, importantly, to hear about your experiences 
during the storm and during that outage and the restoration process. As 
you May know, electric companies in maryland are required after major 
storms to submit to us what are called meter store reports, which are 
detailed, very comprehensive reports that contain a lot of data about 
what happened, how they prepare, reacted, responded, and all that. The 
reports contain a lot of interesting information. Our staff is 
reviewing those. We got a lot of additional data on our own.
 
The only way be to hear about the customer' s experience is from you 
all directly. That is why we hold these hearings tonight and we are 
going to do this across the state. We use not only your comments to 
help us understand the customer experience but to help us question the 
companies more effectively when they come in on September 13 and 14 for 
a hearing we will hold in baltimore as well. That will be web cast 
through our website for anyone interested in watching it -- in watching 
it. It is important to know that we have scheduled these hearings to 
happen before we bring the companies then. Yours are the first voices 
we will hear in response to the storms, and like I said, it is very 
important for us as we get to the bottom of what happened and get to 
the facts. I want to make sure we cover a few ground rules.
 
We will stay here tonight to hear from everybody. We have done this 
before. Last time came to this hearing room in rockville and we were 
here until after midnight. We will stay in here from everybody tonight. 
We will groper the son of sheets in order. Last time we were here we 
allowed the public official to speak first before we heard from the 
public. That did not work out so well us, so we are not going to do it 
that way this time.
 
[Applause] We learn from our past experiences and we very much look 
forward to hearing from you. We ask that you please keep your comments 
to no more than five minutes. We have a lot of people here and we need 
to hear from everybody. It is most comfortable for us to hear about 
your personal experiences and the things that happened to you and your 
interactions with the companies, with emergency management, whatever it 
is. That is the specifics and your direct experience is what is most 
helpful to us. We will have a transcript of tonight' s hearing, the 
gentleman over there is recording everything and will prepare for us a 
full transcript. So et see us looking and listening and not taking 
notes, it is because we know we' ll have a verbatim transcript when 
this is finished.
 
In that regard, we would ask you to do a couple of things. When you 
speak, come up and stand to the microphone up their. One microphone 
will amplify your voice for the room and the other will be his 
recording. We keep them together, so you can speak clearly and loudly 
so everyone can hear you, that would be great. If you could state and 
spell your name before you get started, that will ensure that your name 
gets spelled correctly in the transcript. [Inaudible] >> we will try to 
find a way to bring a mike over to you. Our executive secretary will 
work with the reporter and bring it to you if that is a concern for 
you.
 
He will also be the one that will call out names of the sign up sheet. 
We' ll go in the order that everyone signed up. We apologize in advance 
for names that are mispronounced or hard to read. We are doing the best 
we can. As someone whose name has been mangled since nursery school, I 
know what that feels like. You would be amazed tell how nazarian can 
get pronounced. I have been asked by security to make sure that 
everyone has a seat.
 
The fire marshal says everyone needs to have S.E. Cupp and security as 
well. If you have an open seat next to you, some of the folks from the 
back can come and sit down. I am told that other than the press, we are 
not supposed to have folks standing up. That is from the fire marshal, 
not for me. The other thing I have been asked to say is that if you 
have posters that are bigger than eight by 12, they need to be left 
outside. That is a security role rule. >> inches or feet?
 
[Laughter] >> we will stay to not until we hear from everybody. Please 
keep it to 5 minutes or less. We will keep an eye on the time as well 
and I May gently nudge you if you are running over, so be ready to wrap 
it up if I do signal you. I know these outages and these issues have 
caused folks a lot of frustration and anger. We share the frustration, 
by the way, but we would ask anne schuchat -- as we listen -- we would 
ask that you extend the same courtesy to everyone so that everyone can 
hear. We are asking  -- the court reporter is asking that there be no 
clapping. I guess that messes up the recording.
 
With that, I think we are ready to roll. Ma' am, if you pull the might 
down mike down --  >> I have six copies of my comments for you. Judy 
koenick. I have been a resident of montgomery county probably longer 
than just about anybody here. My parents moved here in 1942 and I 
showed up shortly thereafter. My comments are directed at the butcher 
of montgomery county, also known as pepco holding. Pepco is a joke.
 
Has no clue what to do to prepare for an outage. It is reactive rather 
than proactive. It should use the state highway administration as a 
model. It positions the trucks on the main road so that it is ready to 
roll. Since the last storm, we have lost electricity by times. It cost 
me my router and I received a bill for that shortly along with the 
costs for replacing my food as well as other bills. I expect to be 
reimbursed by you.
 
For the record, I am the person who don' t read containers of spoiled 
food on July 2 -- who dumped three containers. In the summer 1978, we 
had candles and flashlights at the ready. About 38 years ago on a 
saturday memorial day weekend, the electricity went out, this time at 
2:45 P.M. Three hours before several hundred guests to arrive for my 
sisters out for weddings and 15 minutes before the caterer arrived. We 
had no option but to hope that pepco would get the electricity back on 
because there was no place to move the wedding. On another memorable 
occasion, after five days without power, I reached a senior pepco 
person, and using a mac book, showed him where the downed wires were 
after spending five days on the phone trying to show them where they 
work. I have six recommendations that should enable pepco to restore 
power to the most part within two days. 16 sections would take three 
lines down and three lines across.
 
, a senior pepco person to each jurisdiction to serve as a clearing 
house. A sign two crews and trucks to exception ahead of time so they 
know exactly where to go when there' s a problem and I have to wait 
until people start calling in and say here and everywhere else. Each 
crew will be able within minutes to assess the problem, either fix it 
or notify the senior person of each jurisdiction of the nature of the 
problem, and then be able to go help another section. Start here, fix 
what you can, if you cannot fix it, you notify someone and moved to the 
next section. Develop an e-mail address 3 each section to show the 
problems and location, rather than waiting for someone to come out and 
say look, there is a tree there, maybe we should do something about it. 
You take a picture with yourself on an e-mail it to a specific location 
and they can see within minutes or hours of a tree coming down, where 
it is and what has to be done. Develop a call center so that calls are 
answered promptly by people who are not in utah and simply relying on 
company policy.
 
Develop a system so that when power has been restored, people can let 
you know. We were told our electricity would be back on by monday at 
7:00 P.M. It was back on at 9:00 P.M. Wednesday. We were told we 
already had our electricity back on. I said, why are we standing here 
with candles and flashlights? I rely on life line and another medical 
device, neither of which were operational. I will be installing a 
generator because pepco is so unreliable. My first example was from 
1978. If I were to go back -- is a common occurrence.
 
The lights flicker and go out and you have to go reset everything. 
There' s one incident when what we used to do, because my aunt lives on 
the other side of the highway. One of my own neighbors family enjoyed 
2.5 gallons of ice cream rather than have it melt. We all sat on the 
porch and 80 ice-cream. The ability of pepco to trim trees, it cannot 
find any arborist that can tell you that this is how you trim the tree. 
Or this is how you trim the tree. Or this, were you cut out the park, 
or this one, were you trim the tree.
 
Basically what they do is cut out the hard and leave one branch 
sticking out over here. They are lucky we did not have any ice or snow 
last year. If anyone was driving on the road as this car is, that would 
have been killed because snow and ice will break all these branches 
down and all the wires and you would not be sitting here now. Final 
comment, I understand you will give them for years to develop a plan. 
That is ludicrous and absolutely irresponsible. They should be given 90 
days. If they have not figured out what to do over the last 35 or 40 
years, after 90 days you start hitting them with a fine of not less 
than $10,000 per day and do not put it on the people who have to pay 
for the electricity.
 
Again, they don' t know what they are doing. Why walk in with the stuff 
on the handcart and said here is my cryptosporidiosis of and rotten 
food.  -- here is my spoiled and rotten food. >> thank you. Who is 
next? >> spell your first and last name. Ellis is my last name.
 
I am a resident of potomac. I apologize because this whole place seems 
to operate by putting the cart before the war. I did not see the 
guidelines before I got here and I had already written my testimony. I 
testified five or six years ago in another round of political posturing 
about local power outages. I explained then then I grew up in england 
after world war ii . We have bomb craters, but we had power. [Laughter] 
It worked the last time, six or seven years ago. My wife are up in the 
former soviet union.
 
They had communism, but they had power. [Laughter] Here we are again. 
the pantomime continues. This is not a recent problem, by the way. The 
power went out for three or four days right after I moved in here in 
December 2000. Happy holidays. I remember bailing water out after 
our.  -- hour after hour , powerless sump pump to my gravity drained 
baseman sean burke.
 
Why is it that basement showers drain by gravity but sump pump wells do 
not? No wonder I call myself ellis in wonderland. I will try to meet 
your guidelines. Moco is a nice place to be unless you like 
electricity. The point is I was sold a bill of goods when I moved here. 
It seems we are paying for a crew that cannot provide electricity for 
you. If a little here, they fiddle their, but electric power --
  electric power is your own affair.
 
Thousands of regulators and politicians who fail to provide power. It 
is no surprise that we have no power, since they left the plum lines on 
the mayflower. All the polls are teetering over, so they collapse like 
a one leaf clover. You only have to look around and everything is 
crooked. I have never seen a sign or anything that is straight here. 
Ergo, no power. i have told you before, and I hate to bother the, but 
the next time we May have an outbreak of cholera.
 
Most of the people are trying to get the water supply running again, 
and we are not immune to having a cholera attacked . The reason is not 
hard to see. Their infrastructure is not rated a d. We are just 40 
around the edges unless we realize that this system is not a system at 
all. It is not designed -- is badly built, overseen, and regulated, and 
it is not working. We need to look to better standards than a d. For 
years, some locals have said, if you don' t like it here, why don' t 
you leave? If you don' t like having no power, clear out. " jefferson, 
I will fix it and stay. In the spirit of jefferson, a further expound, 
I beg of you, put the wires underground.
 
If not, the course for you and me is to move somewhere with 
electricity. Or else we need the best of luck and have to buy a cherry 
picker truck. Or adopt the american dream, by your own generating 
machine. This is the self-help remedy that people say we are self help 
nation. I don' t think I should pay taxes to my government and build my 
own power station. >> it is enough to make you understand what I call 
myself ellis in wonderland. >> thank you, Mr.
 
Ellis. [Applause] >> I am bob hydorn , President Of montgomery village. 
We have 45,000 residents , almost 12,500 units. By the way, everything 
in montgomery village' s underground and has been since they won in 
1965 woman started building. It doesn' t always mean if it is 
underground you will have power. We had neighborhoods, my own 
neighborhood was out friday night until midmorning on sunday. I feel 
extremely fortunate.
 
I was getting text messages. I was getting cell phone calls from 
residents on thursday and friday following when the power went out, but 
they were still out. We had neighborhoods of over 1000 residential 
units that were out from friday night until the following friday 
afternoon. And this is all underground. We had areas sporadically 
around our community, not just centered in one section, spread 
throughout the community, where there May have been 1000 here, 300 
here, 400 and another location. The problem in my mind is pepco has had 
to come up over the years, instead of paying whatever salaries and 
bonuses they are paying, invest in the infrastructure. They keep 
expanding the systems.
 
How much we need to know as paying customers, how much they are putting 
back in. Let us know where they are putting these new systems then, 
other than just the new communities. That is all drawing of an 
antiquated infrastructure and that needs to stop. I need to pick on 
montgomery county and possibly all can help me. Not just montgomery 
county, but any jurisdiction that the planning department' s s approve 
a new community or the revitalization of a community and they say put 
trees down the side of this street with the power lines above. They are 
required to put them in. That is a mistake.
 
All they are going to do is grow around those wires, as we saw in some 
pictures you are a few minutes ago, the strangest looking cut of trees 
you could ever want to see if you drive down rockville pike are 
frederick avenue in gaithersburg. It does not make sense to do that. 
Please, with your power, look into that as well. Parks and planning 
here needs to really read -- needs to review that as well. With that, I 
say thank you, and thank you for coming here tonight and letting us 
vent. I need to thank one other group of people, and I will never thank 
the hierarchy of pepco, but thank the good lord for all those men and 
women who were out there all those days, working on the lines on behalf 
of pepco, whether they were local or from out of state. They were out 
there in horrible, nasty, rainy, hot weather.
 
They need to be thanked by everybody in this county. >> thank you, 
appreciate your comments. Who is next? >> my name is joseph hunter. I 
am in the no-man' s land between the city of gaithersburg and the town 
of late and still. We also have underground power, and part of the 
problem is that pepco employees, any number of foreign people outside 
the county, people who come in and help them we have these problems. We 
have set -- we have had several of them.
 
Our normal power every day is about three normal averages that require 
us to go around and reset everything in the house. It is because of the 
way they have set it up. Everything is almost in series rather than 
parallel. Any feed coming into our development, we will get as much as 
265 volts instead of 208. When they employ these foreign teams, and 
have nobody on most teams that can access any of pepco' s drawings. It 
had anything, they have a four foot sheet that is a stick figure. Hear, 
the foreign teams must stand around and wait until pepco employee shows 
up with the proper equipment to try to define where the problem is 
underground. That is six to nine hours of five or six trucks and 30 
people.
 
That is insane, but it is our money they are spending. Pepco has no 
problem for controlling the underground installations.  -- no program 
for controlling the underground installations. Pepco has no requirement 
for putting in conduit. They can put in a brown line that is made out 
of aluminum. Everything is highly acidic so we have major problems in 
that area. Pepco has no program to look at stuff by its age and try to 
figure out where are the likely bad spot.
 
They just don' t even keep track of the age of anything. Most of the 
stuff that is installed and our development was installed in the late 
1960' s and has a 20-year life cycle. That was in the 1990' s, and we 
are still living with it. The last complaint I have is the public 
service commission. They are not in any way qualified to hold pepco 
accountable. It has been our experience over the last 15-20 years that 
when we go to them, pepco can tell them any ridiculous solution they 
want and they just pass it on to us. But they have no grasshopper' s on 
their sleeve.
 
We have to look to these things very seriously. Thank you. >> thank 
you, Mr. Hunter. Who is next? >> catherine pickar . I lived in chevy 
chase maryland and I am council member with the town of somerset. This 
evening I am talking to you as an individual.
 
I thank you for allowing me to speak. I am sure that as critical as 
this is, it is not the most pleasant part of your job. I have to point, 
my own experience, I was 5.75 days without power. My husband and I both 
work from our homes. We earn our income from our home of the power is 
out we have a significant loss of income. After several years of losing 
power in most of the outages laughter, we did purchase a small 
generator and it generates a small -- most of the outages last year. It 
powers our work area that does not carry the living area.
 
As an elected official, I was on the conference call daily at 2:00 that 
pepco would have with the government officials. With only a few 
exceptions, I would say that those calls were pretty worthless and very 
time- consuming. There was nothing on them that they could not here on 
the 11:00 news. I did ask a question on July 2, I said in light of the 
current economy and in light of the poor reliability and history of 
pepco, would you consider refraining from increased --  temporarily 
increasing our rate after this extended outage? There was silence and 
the call was referred to Mr. Ray -- he said pepco would never recoup 
its rates or try to regroup recoup its profits after an outage. There 
were many witnesses to this conversation.
 
I said Mr. Borland , maybe I am using the wrong terminology. Maybe I 
just don' t have it right. I thought in the past this had happened. He 
said absolutely no. I am speaking to the cultural pepco. I think the 
pomp, the arrogance, this self aggrandizement, particularly through 
their recent ads, in a very expensive rhetoric, a very insulting 
rhetoric, and I find it quite deceptive.
 
I make this comment from Mr. Borland back to me, an example of this 
deceptive nature of the culture. Mr. Boren, I would guess that he was 
smart enough to understand the gist of what I was saying. He was not, 
he should not have been his position. The second, and I have is that 
during this outage, more than the others, I think it was just too 
militant. I got very frightened.
 
I started feeling the powerlessness that many different levels. I was 
aware that in March 2011, over state had before it -- this was the last 
time we had any major legislation dealing with reliability in terms of 
the state senate and house. There was an amendment proposed that would 
have at least allowed a little bit more control of the behavior of 
pepco after an added. That amendment was defeated in a vote of 22-22. 
15 of the senators accepted pac contributions from pepco or southern 
maryland, and although that is very legal, it made me think, my 
goodness, this monopoly, I was counting on our legislative body to 
protect us from this monopoly, but this monopoly is actually 
influencing them with their money. Who can I turn to but the public 
service commission? I know you are appointed by the governor and there 
were no pac contributions. I was glad of that, but scratched a little 
farther, and lo and behold, there is joseph uribe who gave four 
thousand dollars to the last martin o' malley campaign.
 
it does not smell good, and it was an uncomfortable feeling. I am now 
looking at you guys. It was July 23 and we still did not have power. I 
read the washington post and I admire you for your honesty. There was 
little honesty there in among a lot of deception. He said the 
commission has probably fail to recognize or hear the need for the 
comprehensive reliability changes in the utilities. Of thought all my 
gosh, they have not listened to us.
 
You are the last thing we could depend on to keep us from being victims 
and I felt like you had not listened. I have no way we did no reason to 
think you were dishonest. I know you are very well educated. In 
closing, I am asking you that in the short term, if pepco is going to 
come back to you, they are going to say because you denied the rate 
increase, because of our stocks are being downgraded, we cannot 
continue with this reliability unless we have more money. I am asking 
you to do the right thing. Tell them they had st. -- three strikes and 
they are out.
 
In the famous words of the President, Mr. Gramm, you are one time given 
a mulligan, and say fixed it. Fix it soon, but not on the backs of our 
rate payers. Thank you. [Applause] >> who is next. >> arthur lewis  -- 
martha lewis. i will start with one comment.
 
Judy, I have been here longer than you. I am not going to tell you the 
sob stories of my recent experience because I don' t think that will 
help solve the problem. I was very fortunate, my electricity was out 
for only two years. That makes me happy because I am on a well and I 
have no water when the electricity is out. I have had different 
experiences in the past. This time, the repair was done by a company 
from virginia. The last time it was from detroit.
 
I said what is the problem, and they said the problem is that pepco 
employees are not problem solvers. If you tell them exactly what to do, 
they can do it. They cannot come in and analyze the problem and saw it. 
It seems to me that education is perhaps one of the problems, not just 
the number of employees. All across the midwest, from which we would 
normally get support, they have worse problems than we did. I don' t 
expect that pepco can have a crew of repairmen sitting around waiting 
for the next disaster. It is understandable that they argue that if 
they don' t increase the rates, they cannot fix the problems.
 
What I think should be done about rates is that the scale should go up 
as you use more, you should pay a higher unit rate. We have people 
coming in and building 12 foot ceilings and using an enormous amount of 
electricity, and I believe they should be paying more per unit. I don' 
t understand why you do not insist that they do. The public service 
commission , my experience has been -- I have not dealt with you with 
regard to pepco. I have with other companies. After many months of back 
and forth and volumes of paper , the company said this, and therefore 
there must be lying. I do have a question about your staff.
 
You have an electrical engineer who deals with pepco. >> this is a 
public comment hearing do we have a team of engineers. >> thank you. >> 
who is next? >> my name is ed  -- excuse my laryngitis. I was without 
power or 6.5 days. Gentlemen, thank you for coming in and taking our 
outrage.
 
That is the nicest thing I am going to be saying tonight. I do not 
understand how a regulatory commission, you, can rationally justify 
rewarding incompetence, deceit, and misappropriation of funds. That you 
have consistently done toward pepco. I don' t understand it. You are 
buying their promises, getting into their lives. You do not question 
them, but you give then constantly. I don' t understand it.
 
Pepco has the distinction , as we all know, of being a -- having 70% 
more outages than any other major utility in the country. That is 
remarkable. And yet you want to grant them an increase in rates, not as 
much as they are asking for, but you want to grant them an increase. 
How do you justify that? How do you rationalize that? How do you allow 
them to charge me for the electricity that I did not use during the 6.5 
days I did not have power? How' d you allow that?
 
How do you justify that? Pepco says they are for the people they serve. 
Go to their website and look at their annual reports. That is what they 
say. The President Said, however, that they serve, first and foremost, 
their shareholders. Mr. Graham is a typical ceo in that today' s ceos 
are required to enhance shareholders' position.
 
How do you do that? You cut expenses, quality people, services, in 
order to increase profit and thereby increasing shareholders' value. 
For a utility, however, he has it backwards. You are responsible for 
holding his feet to the fire. His responsibility is not first to his 
shareholders, his first responsibility should be to the people, his 
constituency, the people that his utility serves. Is your 
responsibility to see to it that he does that, and you don' t. And I 
don' t understand it. In my neighborhood, at least, when the clouds 
move in front of the sun, we lose power.
 
After we lose power, we are then supposed to call pepco and tell pepco 
that we have lost power, because they don' t know. Now, as a matter of 
historical perspective, anonymous line identification was established 
in 1942  -- excuse me, anonymous number identification. Anonymous 
location identification so they can send you bills was established in 
1977. We have to call pepco and say here is where I live up and I am 
out of power. Because they don' t know. So we have to call . But there 
is a problem calling. The public service commission of maryland, you, 
allowed the company now called verizon to spend tens of millions of 
dollars marketing fios, their fiber-optic telephone system to the 
citizens of maryland. For those who are old enough to remember, who 
have not switched over tofios, if you have copper lines, even without 
power, you still have a phone.
 
If you switched over to fios , verizon, which you regulate, your phone 
lasts only as long as your battery last, and then you can I have a 
phone because it is dead. But you allow them to market it, you never 
asked them, forced them, pleaded with them to say by the way, if you do 
this, you are not going to have a phone anymore. And you are 
responsible for that. How are we supposed to call pepco to tell them we 
do not have power if we do not have phones? >> I need you to come to 
the end, please. >> in today' s wall street journal, clearly pepco 
earnings were unsatisfactory to pepco, so they are coming backs to you 
to ask for another rate increase, and they will continue to come back 
and threaten the state of maryland. With what, I don' t know, but it is 
your position to do something.
 
I leave with just one question. If you don' t, if you want, or you 
cannot make the utility' s work for the very people who they are 
supposed to be serving , what the hell are you doing sitting here? 
Thank you. >> thank you, I appreciate your comments. Who is next? >> 
susan hoffmann. Chairman And members of the commission, thank you for 
the opportunity to speak at this important hearing.
 
I reside in rockville and am former mayor and pass city council member 
of rockville. I turn to serve on the maryland commission. I am here 
this evening not to bash pepco, nor to speak about pepco at all. There 
are many others who have and will continue to do that tonight. Instead, 
I am here to look at the public service commission. This quasi judicial 
body was created in 1910 to regulate public utilities such as gas, 
electric, telephone, etc. The commission has the authority to license 
utility suppliers, established consumer protection standards, and 
regulate rates and service.
 
This is your full-time, paid position. I am here tonight to implore 
you, to beg you, to please be responsive to the residents of maryland 
and do everything within your power to assure that we receive reliable 
electric service. You have all the power you need to regulate the rates 
and service of the utilities under your purview. I am not here to call 
for broader powers for the pse. You already have all the tools at your 
command to require the utility' s you regulate to provide reliable, 
dependable service. To that end, I propose that the psc expanded its 
membership to more broadly reflect the needs of the average consumer in 
maryland. While each of you has a fine resume, some of you even come 
from the world of public utilities, perhaps you are too close to the 
issue.
 
You May have unwittingly become apologists for the very utilities to 
regulate. Whatever the reason, marylanders need a more responsive 
public service commission. I propose that the commission expand its 
membership to require at least three additional members who are laid 
people and also our customers of the two major electric utilities -- 
lay people, while the third would be a customer from the remaining 
smaller utility companies. Only after one has broadway refrigerators 
and freezers full of groceries and meet -- has thrown away 
refrigerators and freezers full of groceries and meet time after time 
can one fully understand the impact. Let' s be clear. This is only the 
latest in a string of outages up until of recent ice storms of the last 
10 years. The outages have continued to chip away at any possible 
reservoir of goodwill that we as consumers might have had for our 
electric company.
 
I think we all can agree that there was no planning for the derecho, 
but maryland need you to step up and examine how the adages were 
handled. When customers conclude that the utility could shareholder 
profits above customer service and above the delivery and reliable 
electric power, then marylanders can only turn to the public service 
commission for redress and call upon you to understand and share our 
frustration and outrage. Or reconfigured public service commission but 
better geographic and customer representation would be an excellent 
start. This hearing, too, is a good start. Maryland must know that 
there is a commitment on the part of the psc to be on the consumer 
side, to make it clear that the delivery of substandard service will no 
longer be business as usual, and that a new culture of accountability 
is priority number one at the commission. Thank you. >> thank you, who 
is next?
 
>> gloria [Unintelligible] The first part, I was not prepared to talk 
about, so I don' t have my notes. With regard to pepco profits, they 
spent 2.8 million lobbying congress and have not paid taxes since 2007 
or something. They got all these tax credits. that is more about why 
they don' t need more money. There are thousands of us to pay utilities 
through rent or condo fees and do not have account numbers. The pepco 
call center will not take an outage report without an account number. 
They will not use your address.
 
This is the second time major outages happened on friday night and the 
offices are not open until monday morning. Management can I give 
account numbers to residents or condo owners because of the few who 
will Miss Use the numbers that they have them.  -- who will misuse the 
technology. Is there not some kind of technology pepco can use to take 
an address and figure out where the account number is? That is stupid. 
And besides, what about people that do have account numbers? Are they 
supposed to wandering around with a flashlight looking for their bills?
 
You cannot fire up your computer to pay online. Why not use the 
address? But they absolutely will not do it without an account number. 
In my complex in north bethesda, there are at least 5000 people there 
in a pretty small space. Not a single tree branch leaning on any wire, 
and yet it took three or four days for them to come and change a 
transformer. We know it was a transformer, and I watched them do it. 
They tried to tell one of the board members of the condo that we own 
the transformer and we had to change it.
 
They did not have any in stock and had to get it from ohio. All these 
elderly people there , no ventilation and a high rise. It is easy to 
get to. What is that about? I have a picture at the edge of the 
complex. Pepco came in cut down all of a huge tree except for the 
bottom three branches. It looks dead.
 
Maybe it is more alive than it looks. There is one branch over the stop 
sign that you have to stop that to go out of the complex. Dead leaves 
on it, it looks very dead. If you are going to take off all of a huge, 
a giant tree and all but three branches, why leave the one that is 
exactly over the stop sign? >> thank you. Who is next? >> dispel your 
name, please.
 
>> mary caroline colletti. First of all, I would like to speak as a 
montgomery county resident. I have lived here since 1981, and I have 
always worked in a statistical analysis, one of thousands of 
organizations that records data. Believe me, pepco has the worst 
reputation in the country. the thing I want to talk about first is that 
as the residents, not only for those of us who pay electricity through 
our rent or are actually customer of pepco, we are paying as citizens. 
Our police officers are directing traffic when we do not have traffic 
lights. 140 traffic lights.
 
The elderly, the disabled, the low wincome, having prescription drugs 
that require refrigeration, you cannot replace those drugs on your 
prescription coverage. You have to pay for those, $200-$300 a 
prescription. Our first responders in this last go around, we had 
several people in nursing homes, they are telling them they are giving 
priority to hospitals and nursing homes. These are extremely fragile 
people. That is why they are in a nursing home. Personally, I think 
petco officers should be held criminally responsible for those deaths. 
I know that montgomery county first responders and you all were talking 
about that.
 
They are civil offenses. The people at risk, these elderly, low-income 
-- I am a disabled person myself. We cannot afford this. Now for 
specifics, I have been an advocate for some friends of mine that are in 
their 80s. Since 2007, that have been without they have heart trouble, 
congestive heart failure, as,, and the sima -- asthma, emphysema. All 
pepco offered them was blankets. They live right outside of rockville. 
If they do not have electricity, they cannot have water.
 
I believe we should send the bill to pepco. The yelling at them -- 
three elected officials to get them any essential line application 
because of their health. After several state officials help them, they 
sent it on a saturday. But they still have been without power since 
they have been on and the central line. Through my conversations --
  trees are not the enemies. They were here first. There business has 
failed.
 
We saw it. It failed. In my little congregation , population 350 -- 
they were in our neighborhood. They came to the church office and told 
them that we must get rid of these six trees. By the way, the little 
orange truck -- they said, we are right around the corner. They cut the 
trees down. The city of rockville was going to find us thousands of 
dollars for taking down the trees on an easement.
 
What we explained to the city of rockville -- pepco said we told them 
to take the -- take the trees down. The city negotiated and made pepco 
pay for the replacement of those trees that had been there for more 
than 50 years. That is how long we owned the property. Those are just 
some of the shenanigans. By the way, I only lost power, I was very 
lucky, for about seven hours. I was one of the queens of the county. I 
have severe asthma, and the fear of that terrible storm coming the 
weekend after -- I went to a severe asthma attack and almost had to go 
to the hospital.
 
I was so afraid that I was going to lose power -- and knew it would be 
four days. That is how we are living every day. And thank you. >> who 
is next? Spell your first and last name. >> marnie shaul. I have some 
copies of the letter.
 
I am vice President Of the town council of somerset. Somerset is a 
small town of 1200 people in chevy chase. Mr. Chairman and members of 
the commission, last night the town council authorized a letter to the 
public service commission about the inadequacy of pepco as experienced 
by our residents on numerous occasions, most recently after the June 29 
storm. The letter I am reading a short but reflects strongly held 
views. Residents of somerset are tired of being inconvenienced by a 
lengthy power outages and the financial cost associated with them, such 
as throwing away food multiple times a year. Pepco' s customers deserve 
reliable power.
 
Other communities across the country have experienced extreme weather, 
but they have not had to endure the massive power failure is that our 
region has suffered from. The crisis following the June 29 storm 
clearly demonstrates that pepco' s maintenance of its physical 
infrastructure is inadequate. My residence were frustrated by failures 
in their outage reporting system. This failure and demonstrate that 
their infrastructure is completely insufficient. You chair the 
commission that regulates pepco. And matters related to the quality of 
service of regulated firms and consumer complaints. How much more do 
you need to hear from maryland residents about pepco possible for 
performance, inadequate infrastructure, and poor communication to 
customers to change from business as usual regulation to a major 
overhaul for this poorly performing company?
 
We recommend that you consider not rewarding shareholders and corporate 
executives for pepco' s inadequate investment with rate increases. 
Using fines against them to set up a local reserve, requiring an 
outside review of their technology, requiring the undergrounding of 
lines prone to problems and a major overhaul of pepco to improve 
responses to customer concerns. Thank you for your consideration of our 
recommendation. A letter is signed by our mayor. Thank you. >> thank 
you. Who is next?
 
Spell your name, please. >> lynn coard. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and 
members of the committee. I and the city attorney for the city of davis 
bir. I am representing the mayor and city council.  -- gaithersburg.
 
I am representing the mayor and city council. They are unable to be 
here due to previous commitments for the scheduled night against crime. 
There are many conflicting events that conflict with tonight' s 
schedule. We would like to thank the commission for investigating 
concerns raised by many residents and local government. We appreciate 
this opportunity to share perspective on a critical issue that effect 
nearly abbott -- every resident and business owner in the city, as well 
as the ability to provide essential services. On sunday, June 29, 2012, 
the region was hit by a severe derecho storm. Thousands were without 
power, many for several days and some for an entire week.
 
A significant concern was that amongst those who lost power were 
providers of essential public services such as hospitals, police and 
fire facilities, and a number of facilities in gaithersburg. This 
impacted the ability to provide necessary services. The frail and 
elderly were put at risk. Our residents were put on restrictions and 
incurred expenses for perishable food, medicine, and hotel stays. The 
vulnerability of the system leaves our residents marvell to 
unpredictable inconvenience and expense and is a serious danger. This 
should not be the case in a region home to our nation' s capital. We 
understand that pepco has worked to restore power, with many more 
contract workers joining the effort.
 
The central command center for those workers located in gaithersburg, 
so we saw firsthand the enormous scale of the operation. Despite their 
best efforts, it was clearly not enough. Our residents demand better 
and deserve better. While we understand the unpredictable nature of 
weather, they must stop their heavy reliance on out of state workers. 
When an entire region is hit, other utility providers by for the same 
pool of contract workers, creating shortages that result in an even 
longer restoration time. This recent forum -- storm highlights the 
vulnerability is to public safety in our area. In the first days of 
recovery, work focused on restoring power to water treatment 
facilities, police and fire stations, hospitals, and key government 
offices.
 
Investment needs the midst of these facilities to not suffer 
significant losses in major whether of vans. Pepco and the commission 
needs to study the most effective ways to achieve this goal and develop 
a plan to implement it. These facilities -- if they cannot Ms. Power, 
the task of --  if they do not lose power, the task of restoring power 
to others can begin sooner. Pepco should be required to examine what 
deficiencies exist in the lines that provide electricity to homes and 
businesses, and probably develop a plan to identify and if possible 
strengthen weak points in the distribution line. The frequency of 
outages in our city and the absence of stars, some -- storms, even in 
neighborhoods where undergrounding has been accomplished, shows the 
need to change the distribution system. Requiring them to do this seems 
to be the only way to reduce the risk of repeated, lengthy outages for 
residents throughout the city of gaithersburg.
 
Communication remains a area of concern. Of particular concern is a 
lack of accurate information that would have assisted local governments 
in identifying and potentially rendering 82 residents still without 
power as temperatures soared --  aid to residents still without power 
as temperatures soared. Many residents were told that power had been 
restored to their community when and factored had not. You can 
certainly understand the frustration -- when, in fact, it had not. You 
can certain interest and the frustration this causes. Pepco must do 
better. Increasing volatile weather is taxing the resources of 
municipalities.
 
This seems to be an ever- increasing series of natural disasters. We 
ignored the strides that pepco has made to foster a close working 
relationship with municipal government, we nonetheless express our 
concern at what appears to be a lack of progress in solving basic 
systems problems, the result of which are devastating to our community. 
We thank you for this opportunity to share gaithersburg' s concerns 
with you this evening. We would be happy to answer any questions you 
May have. >> we appreciate your comments on behalf of the town. Who is 
next? Spell your first and last name.
 
Betty garrand. I am a resident of chevy chase. I live on that jones 
bridge road, the same highly-used road that ends in nih and navy 
medical. I bring that up because I want to contrast how montgomery 
county government serve its citizens and how pepco did. The storm hit 
that friday evening around 11:00. It probably lasted about an hour. 
Between 1:00 and 2:00 in the morning, montgomery county ' s highway 
department had trucks out taking care of -- this is don jones bridge 
road, so I could see it from my house. They had trucks out.
 
Two or three and men signed a major tree that had fallen on two houses 
-- sawing a major tree that had fallen and two houses. They worked on 
that tree for the better part of an hour or so to keep traffic flowing 
because it is such an important artery in order to get to nih and navy 
medical. They were there. They got the job done. I see the truck' s 
drive through that early morning routinely in the rest of the period of 
time to keep everything free-flowing. I did not get power back until 
tuesday morning. As most of us remember, how hot and humid that of a 
period of time was.
 
I really feel badly for people who did not give power back until 
friday. I know there were spots in chevy chase and bethesda that did 
not get that power back until friday. E. Think, that is not that far 
from where I live.  -- do you think, that is not far from where I live. 
So be it. It just to let you know, it is possible, and montgomery 
county has figured out how to do that, how to get crews working, how to 
respond to a storm -- pepco has still not figured out the game. >> 
spell your last name once more.
 
>> garrant d. >> thank you. Who is next? Spell your first and last 
name. >> ab be mil stein. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and psc 
officials.
 
I am a stay at the mother of three young children and a 12- year 
resident of rockville. Prior to that, I was a gaithersburg resident. I 
lost my power for six days. We threw out over $1,000 of food. My home 
reached internal temperatures of 90 degrees. My kids were not able to 
attend the summer camps they were enrolled in. We spenc t considerable 
time with my in-laws who lived in a retirement home in silver spring 
and had power.
 
We ate out a lot. Power lines remained down in my neighborhood for six 
days, making driving extremely tricky, and especially in the evening. 
Trucks finally arrived after six long days and repair the lines of in a 
few hours. Clearly this was a strong storm  -- trees and telephone 
poles were snapped in half. Poultry' s were operative and fell down on 
power, telephone, and cable lines. We are young, lucky, and could 
easily pile into a car and drive off to another county to watch a movie 
and cool off for part of the afternoon. While sitting, I started to 
wonder about the storm, power outages, and consequences.
 
I wondered on days when I lost power when it does rain, or on sunny 
days, when this injury in a weather-related reason for losing power. I 
was able to learn about elected leaders protective about the issue of 
power. Roger berliner' s name kept coming up, and I decided to give his 
-- his office a call. I spoke with him and other council member staff 
for about an hour. We also learned that you , Chairman, and the public 
service commission, something I had not known about a month ago. We 
then the whole purpose of the psc -- learn the whole business of the 
psc is to regulate public services, set utility rates and adjustments. 
You can enforce rules and regulations.
 
The problem, when it comes to pepco, is that you have failed to do your 
job year after year after year. As the only regulatory body in our 
state that can actually a fact psc' s performance --  pepco' s 
performance, you have failed to use your authority to hold them 
accountable. Instead of finding them for below-acceptable levels of 
service, you have rewarded them year after year for failing to maintain 
the power infrastructure in our community. Pepco' s internal failures 
are consistently rewarded with rate increases from the psc and some of 
the highest pay us in the industry to pepco shareholders. There had 
been repeated warnings based on independent reports that include their 
own data regarding inadequacy of service from a technical standpoint 
and management and customer relations standpoint. Critical warnings 
have been downplayed, excuse, and ignored, yet the psc has neglected to 
impose fines and consistently allows shareholders to be highly rewarded 
for their investment. Pepco is essentially a monopoly.
 
The only regulatory body that stands between it and its rate payers is 
the public service commission. By neglecting your role as Chairman Of 
the psc, you have enabled pepco to recap it in our lives. In prepared 
testimony -- reached havoc in our lives. Prepared testimony, the 
President Of pepco said that it was not reasonable for a person to be 
upset after seven days without lights or air conditioning. Everybody in 
the room was quite amazed. He did again to try to correct himself. How 
about seven days without oxygen, a feeding tube, or a ventilator?
 
In response to all of this, I formed a group. I have included my 
neighbors, friends, community leaders, and others. It is a way to reach 
out to you and recheck to the governor. We have citizen activists, 
electrons and engineers, attorneys, physicians, accountants, and other 
highly- involve residents ready to address the changes that must occur 
if we are going to have reliable and consistent power income recounted. 
Many of them are here speaking tonight. The one to could not make it 
are sending written testimony. I have been a big chance to review it.
 
We currently have thousands of angry montgomery county residents who 
have expressed their outrage a pepco' s performance to you, the psc, 
and our elected representatives over and over again, yet there has been 
no improvement in now our delivery system. The situation has 
deteriorated. Let' s hope we will -- you have finally heard us and a 
willing to take responsibility for the mass that is pepco. If not, we 
are watching, organizing, listening, and definitely voting. We will not 
stop until we get reliable and consistent power delivered to us. Thank 
you very much. [Applause] >> who is next?
 
Spell your first name. >> joel free man. Good evening. I joined abbe' s 
group when I was sitting in my home and found that, amid afternoon, 
power went out after the derecho. It happened at the gazette had her 
name and her efforts right out front. I said, I will look in the phone 
book and find her. That will have to  -- happen often.
 
There was an event that took place on 9/11 in new york. I happen to 
have come to montgomery county only 27 years ago. Given my elderly 
status at this point, I live summer before, in new york. I knew some of 
the people who work in those towers. Within 24 hours of the attack, 
conedison had one  -- 140 crews in lower manhattan. Within the period 
that it took to restore power in our neighborhoods, they had laid out 
33 miles of high-voltage cable and restored power on the streets, the 
trenches. They built those to shield the wire.
 
That was in addition to the fact that they had to disentangle from the 
debris the lines that had existed before. That is not a level of 
service we can expect from pepco, of course. Now we found in this 
derecho, always dealt with as a one- off, this is only this event, not 
cason -- systemic thing. This is a unique event. We are always told 
that. In this unique event , there were many nursing homes that did not 
have power for more than 48 hours. By state law they are supposed to 
move those people by the time they are without power for so long.
 
The people May die if they stay there. They May very well by they are 
moved.  -- die if they are moved. For all the talk about priorities, 
they did not accomplish anything in that category either. We could talk 
about the fire that took place in front of my home -- that is small 
potatoes. The tendency is to look at the micro issues, not the macro 
issues. Then there was the question of the pumping station.
 
We came perilously close to the circumstances where the backup port 
fail, the generators would fail, and then we would have a public health 
crisis and it would be known across the nation much more than the 
recent storm was none. In the washington you see area, there was a -- 
washington, you see area, there was a health crisis. you cannot drink 
the water. This is not haiti. That is the power we have. It is getting 
worse each time. There will be dead bodies because of it.
 
This is a systemic problem. As I said, it is not a one-off. A man named 
norman augustine, Chairman Of lockheed with the distinguished business 
career came into this county and did an analysis with a work group. He 
has described the world --  the problem is to trade --  change it. His 
working group report has been aggressively ignored by those who have 
the power and the authority to do something about it. The public 
service commission is in great peril of being seen, like the piano 
player in the courthouse to says -- whorehouse goes says, I did not 
know what was going on. In that report, there was a strong statement 
that the psc should be staffed up, that you should have the degree of 
staffing and the level of competency that would allow you to deal with 
a multibillion- dollar corporation.
 
They said something quite specific about financing. After saying pepco' 
s performance under major and non-major events can be geddes inferior 
by any reasonable standard, they went on to say that the psc should 
establish region standards and utilize its authority to impose remedies 
sufficient to align pepco' s financial interests with those of the 
community. It has not done so. They said, while much needs to be 
accomplished by pepco itself, the single most important action that can 
be done by those outside of the company is to establish a package of 
aggressive financial incentives and consequences that better align 
pepco prosperity' s -- pepco' s priority is with those of the 
community. This is a monopoly situation. I remember when I went to law 
school and took a course on public utilities and heard about captive 
agencies. You got to find a way, if you mean to do your job, of 
substituting what the lack of market mechanisms -- for the lack of 
market mechanisms.
 
You have to do with the working group suggested. There should be no 
conflict between any outage performance, and any financial consequences 
should be service and to eliminate any utility tendency to cut 
unnecessary expenses to increase profit. The fact is -- and necessary 
expenses to increase profit. The linesmen have been cut by 50% in the 
last 20 years. They then decided that they could bring in contract 
labor on an ad hoc basis. We do not need to maintain -- we do not need 
to have people here. The basic law of negligence is that if you could 
foresee it you are responsible.
 
It is quite clear to those who want to open their eyes that you must 
see it. You must see it. You must take -- I know this is a quasi-
judicial body. You must take judicial notice of what every common 
citizen knows and act as the augustine group suggested. You know, it is 
there. It is on the record. You had a consultant to look into it.
 
The office of the people paz council will have to decide which people 
is for.  -- it is for. I taught management for over 13 years. This is a 
case of otter --  butter utter abstinence and management on the part of 
people aware of the legal authority to make sure which way the wind is 
blowing. >> thank you. Who is next? Spell your name into the 
microphone.
 
Welcome back. >> I am angry for a different reason. I am a second world 
war veteran and I came here early tonight. I was the second person to 
sign the list. I resented being publicized and politicized. I have not 
spoken yet. With that, I will say what I want to say.
 
What we should be concerned about is what is wrong, not who is wrong. 
who is wrong deals with personalities. What is wrong deals with let' s 
fix the problem. How many people spoke tonight and used whea e? My 
condominium, my of this. I was living in montgomery county when 270 did 
not exist. I am President Of one of the largest associations in 
montgomery county. We are not very happy about pepco' s performance.
 
I can tell you this -- I have had a lot of friends of pepco. We did 
very well built in montgomery county. I am very angry with montgomery 
county. When we built regency, they came along and offered us cherry 
trees for $10 apiece. Where did replant them? Right under the lines. I 
have been an advocate that you can only plant dwarf trees under power 
lines.
 
We built , in 1960, I am old enough to have said that, 87 years old, 
even then we did not want to plant them under them. Montgomery county 
insisted. The members will say you cannot even take down a tree. The 
biggest problem we are having in montgomery county are the trees. The 
worst thing we are doing is going in and cutting out -- you going to 
see it with the line' s going through it.  -- lines going through it. 
we have to do the right and correct thing.
 
Who' s but does it stop at?  -- buck does it stop that? I have taught 
management for 60 years. But we have not done is told this group what 
we wanted them to do. What we did is we beat them publicly. They 
deserve more than that . We, too -- I live on a street that has had 
more outages than any. When rosalyn the drive goes dark -- rosalinda 
drive goes dark.
 
My daughter said the wind had lost -- they had lost power. We need a 
better understanding between pepco and the public of why we are not 
getting better power. Rather than mass just beating everyone to death 
and some of us applauding. It is nothing to a plot about. It is sad 
that one of the richest counties in this country cannot have better 
utilities vendor does, but we have not established why. We have just 
established to knows more and can speak. Do I have any background?
 
I have seven engineering degrees, two intellect or engineering. I did 
not want to build something if I did not understand how it is built. I 
say, we still have not said tonight was wrong. We have said how much we 
are hurt, how bad is to be without power, how much is to have power  -- 
but we have not establish what is wrong. We are trying to establish who 
is wrong. You can never fix what is wrong if we do not all change our 
attitudes, . If I was Chairman Of the board , each one of us would have 
a conversation with each other and eventually save they would rather 
replace you all and try somebody else. That is enough.
 
Thank you. >> thank you. Who is next? Speier name please. >> stanley 
klein. I have concluded that the reason for pepco' s low reliability is 
that they had hollowed out their capability for responding to outages 
and performing distribution system maintenance. We live close to 
twinbrook.
 
Subnets space station.  --  substation. There were no downed lines and 
downed trees between our neighborhood and the station, and yet we were 
without power for two days, with power restored around noon on monday. 
Power kinmen for a few seconds sunday night and quickly went out 
again.  -- came on for a few seconds sunday night and quickly went out 
again. there was little to no activity there until monday, when out of 
town crews showed up. Soon after they started working on the lines, are 
power was restored.
 
Why could that not have been done much earlier by pepco? The reason is 
that pepco did not have the people to do the job. They hollowed out 
their own capability and became dependent on bunyan outside crews --
  bringing in outside crews. A week ago, I noticed a broken tree branch 
hanging over a power line like the sword of damocles. I called the 
situation in to the city of rockville. There were e-mail exchanges. 
Because the high voltage distribution line went right to the branch, 
they notified pepco.
 
I got an e-mail that indicated they had notified them. The situation 
was fixed, but only on the second day after pepco had been notified. 
The fix took only 20 minutes. I talked to the repairperson after the 
fix was completed. The branch would not have brought down the line -- 
it could have started a fire and caused an outage. Pepco, if they had 
the people, the situation would have been fixed much more rapidly. This 
is not necessarily a matter of new infrastructure needed.
 
Much of the distribution system contains twitches and uses that much -- 
and fuses that much been in -- must be operated manually. Perhaps in 
the future the bank can be converted to remote operation, but that is 
no excuse for cutting back now. However, I do want to talk a little 
about the future. I am active in efforts on the smart grid. I co-chair 
a group looking at issues associated with devices that simultaneously 
serve the bulk and distribution grids. Michael-share is an engineer on 
the staff of the california public utilities commission. I wish the 
maryland public services commission had enough staff and funding to 
seriously bridge is paid in the smart great efforts.
 
He might learn something.  -- to participate in the smart greed 
efforts. You might learn something. Examples of such devices include 
rooftop solar, electric vehicles capable of feeding power to the grid, 
and battery storage with appropriate electronics connected directly to 
the distribution grid. For pilot testing, batteries are being diverted 
from production of new electric vehicles. In the future, they could be 
batteries that have fallen below the 75% capacity needed for regular 
use. These two not necessarily represent pepco infrastructure, but 
could be owned by both pepco and its customers.
 
Over 20 individual functions, including local backup power, have been 
identified as possible capabilities of these technologies. Some of the 
technologies are the future. However, some are ready for deployment and 
are being mandated in europe but cannot be deployed in the U.S.. This 
is because of a complex combination of regulatory, market, and 
technical issues, many related to the federal- state separation and 
regulatory oversight of transmission and distribution. I urge the psc 
to begin investigating these issues to avoid similar outages situations 
in the future. Thank you. >> thank you. Who is next?
 
Please spell your name. Bruce bernstein. I lived in rockville. I was 
without power for five nights. To look at the bright side, we 
discovered the restaurants more sit nts. I work in the area of 
reliability of equipment for utilities. I have for 24 years at the 
power research institute in washington.
 
After I retired, I setup a consulting organization. I have been 
involved in areas involving power. I want to offer a suggestion here 
that I have not heard until tonight -- this gentleman in the blue chair 
who I do not know talk about what is the problem rather than who is the 
problem. I would suggest from personal experience where the commission 
brought in outside experts to solve the problem. I want to write a -- 
read a letter that I wrote to "the washington post." severe outages 
have occurred outside of washington you see. One possible approach is 
to bring in a group of outside experts who are specialists in 
individual technologies. Nobody expects the psc to have this knowledge.
 
They would analyze the system of utilities -- we are talking about 
pepco. This takes place with the utility providing requested 
information. The outside expert analysis focuses on weaknesses and 
strengths of the entire system. The area I was involved and in the past 
was singled out as --  different story and problems, but the principle 
remains the same. They can determine if state of the art technology is 
applied and make recommendations to ensure future really -- reliability 
is achieved. Looking one step deeper, looking at underground station 
problems, transformers, cables, towers -- looking beyond, comments can 
go forth on going underground. People think underground is the answer -
- you have to understand what the problems are with underground.
 
People think there are no problems -- that is not true. This kind of 
analysis goes beyond making requests. It goes beyond making demands. It 
goes beyond making threats. In my experience, drummer' s the anchor, 
and we have a lot of anchor in this room -- it removes the anchor, and 
we have a lot of anger in this room. The intermediate conclusions were 
previously communicated by conference calls. I have found that this 
works.
 
Money -- where will the money come from? The first thing I will say is 
that the cost of doing this will be trivial compared to the avoided 
cost of the failures. Secondly, the state has to be involved. When I 
was working with the public service commission -- it is not easy. You 
look at the experts, you have to sign contracts, do all the things 
required. I' ve not heard the spelled out in detail anywhere. I heard 
the gentleman talked about what is wrong.
 
This focuses on what rather than at who. I ended this letter by saying 
that it was recommended that the public service commission provide 
focus. I will recommend that they take action. Thank you. >> thank you. 
Ok? >> he wants to sit right there.
 
I can do that. If you would, spell your name, please. >> stan croyden. 
>> thank you. >> I thank you for a chance to speak tonight. I want to 
make sure there was somebody who could speak on behalf of the 
perspective of somebody with disabilities. The lady over there in green 
did a great job with that.
 
I thank her. last month, in the space of eight days, our home in 
kensington lost power three times. The first time, it was out for three 
days. What my poor wife did is she called around for about an hour to 
try to find a hotel room with electricity and air- conditioning. I have 
multiple sclerosis. The worst thing for ms are heat and stress. It was 
certainly hot back then.
 
The stress of trying to find a place to live as bad as well. We found a 
place in greenbelt for were safe. When it looked like we had power 
back, we can back. It was two days later that the power went out again. 
It only stayed out for two hours. Even though you are in the middle of 
packing suitcases, we decided that maybe we can get a good night' s 
sleep and stay here. That was the second time.
 
I guess we would take a without power again. Then, on at the third 
time, power went out for about four hours before we decided we needed 
to move again. At this time gaithersburg --  this time we went to 
gaithersburg. We were there for two hours when our oldest daughter got 
in contact with us and explain that power had gone on. At that point, 
we already signed in, I figured we would get billed -- let' s just stay 
there. It will take a while to cool the house down. The thing is 
that  -- to get back on track -- altogether we wound up with four days 
of expenses from hotels where we stayed.
 
We had a lot of receipts and the different places where we had to eat. 
I have not put in a number for how much food was destroyed from the 
refrigerator is going out and coming back on and going up again. When I 
called our homeowners insurance, they explained, sorry, we can only pay 
for the direct expenses of whatever the problem was that happened. If a 
tree fell on my house, they then would have paid for that. We did not 
have a tree fall on my house. The thing is, our insurance agent was 
nice enough to point to me that there were other people who had to use 
devices that required electricity. I do not know what those poor folks 
will and of doing altogether, my wife and I were down -- she is also 
disabled.
 
It was frustrating, that is all I can say. My wife found something a 
couple of months ago that said that the phone company does not have 
to  -- cannot charge you if your using 411 services and have a 
disability. The thinking is that you cannot really be writing down what 
they then a telling you on the phone what you are trying to talk to 
them, what appeared disability might be. That May be wonder what might 
be able to be done in this situation. I do not think my insurance 
company will have a lot of luck getting the reimbursed or whatever, but 
the thought occurred to me that, following the thinking of the 
americans with disabilities act which is very -- which mentions 
reasonable accommodations, I wonder why pepco cannot go out and 
purchase a number of units that provide for power generation? I found 
on the internet to find out how much these things cost  -- they said it 
was $3,000 for a unit that could service somebody who needed an air 
conditioner working. Multiplying numbers by tens and hundreds, by the 
time you got up to $3 million, that is about 1000 units.
 
Here is the -- where I want to talk specifically about disabilities. I 
want everybody in the room to know this. 20% of everyone in the room, 
like this, would be considered to be disabled by the time they died. 
There is no way to say who that 20% are going to be. They then could be 
that janitors, the secretary, the council member -- or it could be 
somebody who works for pepco. If pepco put in all these units, and 
there was a major power outage, one thing to do is go to the people who 
have disabilities and at least give them up and running. If that is not 
possible, it makes our lives a whole lot more difficult.
 
I wanted to say that, if pepco would use some of the money they put 
into slick tv commercials telling us how good they were at is never 
ready back into service, they could probably take care of almost all 
the unit' s they would need to get people with disabilities back with 
electricity. Thank you. >> thank you. James swarts ? Stacy small-lorenz 
? Spell your complete name, please. >> stacy small-lorenz. I am a 
mother of a six-month old lady and I hold a doctorate in ecology from 
the university of wheaton. Last month, I poured my entire reserve 
supply of breast milk down the drain, a three-day supply for my six-
month old in the event of an emergency.
 
Pepco left us without power for six days. If any of you have at 
their  --  have never breastfed an infant, you know how hard it is to 
get that far ahead. I have never been able to get ahead since the 
massive power outage that struck a region following the June storm. 
This is the especially difficult because I just returned to work full-
time and was counting on the back of supply. Talking to my friends, I 
know I am not the only working mother with a breast-feeding infants to 
suffer the same consequence. We left for ohio to stay with relatives 
because our relatives in gingrey county were also without power. We had 
two neighbors in the third trimester of pregnancy who were displaced 
for days.
 
There were elderly and disabled in our neighborhood. We were not the 
only ones to suffer. Not everybody can afford to pack up and leave or 
move into a hotel every time they then lose power for an extended 
period. Our neighborhood is regularly without power, sometimes for 
days. Mother nature only has to sneeze for us to lose power. Pepco 
needs to step up its emergency response time. Psc should hold them 
accountable to do so, and should hold pepco accountable for reimbursing 
customers, not only for failure to prevent power outages, but for 
losses and costs of being displaced.
 
Pepco needs to step up its emergency communications efforts. I do not 
mean a pr campaign. The residents of rohrabacher often the first to 
call and the last to get out are restored.  -- of our neighborhood are 
often the first to call and the last to get out -- power restored. We 
called to report tree branches suspended in power lines that cost 
neighbors to be without power. We were on hold for over an hour for 
some calls. Other times we followed up and said there was no report of 
our previous call.
 
A call placed to them by 911 got no response. We only got a visit from 
a pepco audit -- inspector after calling a congressman. One neighbor 
receive two cost saying power had been restored, only to rush from and 
be disappointed. She tells me that the current television pr campaign 
feels like a slap in the face after everything she went through. It is 
time that psc and pepco wake up to the reality that faces us in our 
children -- and children. With climate change, we will see more extreme 
storms in summer and winter. With that will come extreme --  increased 
strain on our power grid.
 
What we saw is only a taste of our future. If pepco does not implement 
effective climate change prepared this measures. Reports released last 
month about climate change in packed and prepared this for extreme 
weather events -- I would advise psc and pepco officials to stop making 
excuses and get these reports, get educated, and take heed. Now is the 
time to prepare for future extreme events, because they will only keep 
coming. pepco can make strides to create infrastructure for the 
survival and well-being of our friends and neighbors. Trimming trees 
only increases temperatures and decreases air quality by reducing green 
canopy and shade, exacerbating the problem. It is time for pepco to 
start acting proactively instead of reactive lee, implementing smart 
grid measures and power lines, starting with the most volatile 
neighborhoods -- those with the most -- highest concentration of 
economically disadvantaged, young, old, and senior citizens.
 
I would like to point out that we already pay a bill every month that 
collectively amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars in annual 
profits, with top pepco executives taking home millions every year. 
Many of us will not make that much in a lifetime. I would propose that 
psc colom pepco to release a revised plan that shows upgrades in 
infrastructure in the most vulnerable shareholders, and that thank you 
for holding this hearing and taking my concerns into consideration. >> 
thank you for coming out. Who is next? >> esther chayt . I would like 
to thank you for holding this hearing and I wish she would have one 
every six months, and I wish the members of the county council and 
congressional estate represented for here because I feel their job is 
to hear the problems that we have, not just be out there campaigning 
and doing photoshops. I want you to know that when I called pepco, you 
could never get through, and when I did get through, that wanted to 
know why I was so upset.
 
I have medical conditions which means I have to be in a stable 
temperature. Needless to say, I had nowhere to go. I do not have a car 
and the only cooling station in montgomery county was that a high 
school in rockville. I decided that hospitals cannot operate in the 
dark, so they must have a generator, so I walked the seven blocks to 
the hospital where I live and I was there every day for five or six 
days from 7:00 A.M. Until 7:00 P.M., because I had nowhere to make too, 
had no car, and I had no place to jack up my phone. While there, I 
called every member of the county council. I called pepco. I called 
everyone I could think of, and when I got my electricity back, I call 
the public service utilities commission and I was told by the woman who 
answered the phone, unfortunately, or fortunately for her, I did not 
write down her name, but she said even if I wrote a letter, no one 
would ever read it a -- anyway.
 
You don' t know how angry that made me. I am assuming as part  -- you 
are a state employee. That just does not sit well with me. So now I 
will read you what i said in August 2010 when the commission was here 
and the elected officials got to talk first, and then they went home 
instead of staying here and listening to the citizens to put them in 
office, and your taxes pay their salaries. I want the upper echelon of 
the organization to be made to experience the dangerous situations that 
[Unintelligible] They have generators . If they had been at the lower 
end of the food chain, they would see things differently, as their life 
was not interrupted. While I was at the hospital, there are two other 
people in the neighborhood who had no power and one of them had a 
computer and she is on some kind of server, and someone in her group is 
a journalist and he found out the President Of pepco makes 800 to 8 $2 
million a year -- makes $822 million a year plus stock options. That 
money needs to be is to hire people to take care of business.
 
It is the people at the lower end who do all the work, not the people 
at the top in. I know you all think you are important because you have 
a good salary and a good office, but the real value is at the lower end 
of the organization. Money needs to be spent on the lower in employees, 
training and advancement. A different mindset. There is a need for more 
repair people. Deal, dissever, infants, and the elderly reject the ill, 
the elderly and disabled --  I don' t feel you really lose any sleep 
over how many people are not being served, even though you always want 
the money up front and bills paid is at the top of your list. No tv, 
radio, no lights, and no computers.
 
You need volunteers on the ground that need to look and see what needs 
to be done and reported. How do you get on the public service 
commission? Maybe you need more consumer advocates. Whoever you report 
to is not worthy. Even an uneducated edie it can see that. The 
commissioners could be consumer base, not appointed on the basis of a 
political party of a state senator at the time to be beholden to their 
political party. Thank you for listening.
 
>> thank you. Who is next? >> Mr. Richard martinez. Mr. Richard 
martinez. Mr.
 
James griffin. >> james griffin. I am the President And business 
manager of I b w local union 1900. Local 1900 represents the 1150 pepco 
employees. I have worked for pepco since 1973. Local 1900 members work 
in dozens of occupation that pepco from engineering support, call 
center reps, customer credit and billing, underground lines, substation 
technicians and overhead lines, to name a few. Many of our occupations 
are dangerous, where a simple error could be physically devastating or 
even deadly. Electricity is unforgiving. Hundreds of local 1900 members 
were involved in pepco storm preparation efforts.
 
I want to take this opportunity to thank all the pepco customers who 
came out of their hot and dark homes and offered support to our members 
as they worked 12 and 16 hour shifts a day after day in 100-degree 
weather. Many of our members working on restoring power came from the 
same neighborhoods that suffered the storm' s damage. They left their 
families without power to do what they do best, serve our customers. 
There are many factors that affect response to an event such as this. 
One is a level of planning and the efficiency with which management 
directs the restoration effort. Another is how many employees are 
immediately available to respond. A lot of attention has been erected 
recently at how many blind men pepco has.
 
We call them blind maquette --  how many linemen pepco has. An 
additional 21 retrainees. Not all line mechanics are equal in terms of 
qualifications. It is important to know that it takes at least five 
years for a line mechanic to gain enough training and experience to be 
able to work independently on a regular basis, performing increasingly 
complex jobs. in contrast, pepco had 191 line mechanics in 1995 and 200 
in 1993. Back then, there were fewer customers and the internet, cell 
phones, and wireless tablets were things of science fiction. The 
demands on pepco' s system them or not at today' s level. Further, in 
its October 1999 response to this commission' s notice of 
investigation, case number 8826, pepco reported that it had 312 line 
crews working the aftermath of the June 1996 thunderstorm and 318 crews 
working after hurricane floyd in September 1999. These were pepco 
crews, not contractors.
 
Today, pepco says they used mixture of contract crews. Summer 
transient. They do not know the pepco electric system the way full- 
time pepco employees do. In addition to contractors for this storm, 
tepco received mutual assistance crews from as far away as oklahoma and 
quebec, canada. These crews to two and three days to arrive. Very 
simply, had there been an adequate number of pepco line mechanics today 
compared to years past, pepco would have been able to start repairing 
more of the storm damage senator. Over the past 15 years come three 
former presidents of ibwa local 1900 have formed testimony and public 
comments to this committee and others of the consequences of pepco 
staffing practices as it relates to storm restoration do they came 
forward after similar circumstances after major weather events that 
caused heavy system damage.
 
Does anyone remember hurricane isabel? I have come here today as the 
fourth except -- and second President Of local 1900 to repeat these 
very real and continuing concerns. Pepco has reported in the media that 
it hired 59 line mechanics in the past few years. Actually, that since 
May 2009. During that same time, we lost 31 line mechanics. Retirement, 
quitting, during, etc. Pepco informed local 1900 that it had enacted a 
hiring freeze, even though it had agreed to fill an additional number 
of positions through 2013, it is too little, too late. The hiring 
freeze will further exacerbate the problem.
 
It takes years to train a new employee. Local lighting hundred members 
make careers at petco. We raise our families in the washington area and 
take ownership of and pride in our work serving pepco customers. It is 
not unusual for our members to have 25, 30, and even 35 years of pepco 
service. There is one department where the junior employee has 26 years 
of service. I wonder if any of pepco contractors have employees who 
have worked on the pepco electric system for 25 years or even 10. pepco 
serves the capital of the united states and the free world. Its 
customers deserve better.
 
Thank you for giving me the opportunity tonight. [Applause] >> it is 
next? >> della st olsworth . I just have a few questions to raise that 
I think the community and the greater public deserve having the 
commission asked of pepco. I was here when pepco did the deep creek 
before the county council, and I was really puzzled -- did the debrief 
and I was puzzled when they were touting their improve reliability and 
they showed this wonderful power point presentation on the tv screen. I 
noticed in love all tiny times that they have been proved  -- I noticed 
all the team tiny askterisks saying if you take out all the storm and 
bad weather days. That is like saying we don' t have any problems on 
the beltway as long as your traffic is between 2:00 A.M. And 4:00 A.M. 
You don' t have to be a statistician to know that if you take out all 
the bad things you touter reliability, it makes no sense. It is crazy.
 
I am President Of the civic association of probably 900 houses or so. 
What was most infuriating for us was the complete breakdown in 
communication and the complete and reliability of the data coming from 
pepco. It is bad enough to be sitting in your house in the dark and 
hot, but then to be given a load of B.S. Lawyer sitting there sweating 
is just keeping insult upon entry. What we found time and time again 
was that petco is really happy to go on the news media and save report 
your average on your smart phone app, you can go online and do this and 
that. What they did not tell you is that after you reported your 
outage, sometimes an hour or two hours later, they would just wipe it 
out and show you as being restored. We have senior citizens in our 
neighborhood who had family members come to evacuate them to safety. 
Then they got a robocalls thing you can come back home, your power is 
holt -- your power is on.
 
They drove them home, and their power was still off for three or four 
days longer. In the most recent report, pepco claimed this is something 
they could not help, they have no control, it is just the way their 
software works. If the repair one line, automatically the system 
magically wide as all the other feeder lines. Frankly, I am not an I.T. 
Person, but I have to believe that was a pretty expensive piece of 
software, so if they bought it without testing it, they are either 
grossly incompetent or they are being completely deceptive. So when we 
go on line and see all the maps, your neighborhood is fine, everybody 
is great. We are still sitting there sweating. It is an insult, and 
there is no excuse for that.
 
So while they are on tv touting how many people were being restored, 
those numbers were not accurate. That' s absolutely admitted that their 
data was not correct. It is an insult. If you go and look at the 
industry averages, pepco has one of the highest payout ratios of any 
utility company. They are way, way above average. I was a stockholder 
until recently. They are sacrificing the needed infrastructure 
improvements and maintenance to pay off their dividends.
 
It is inexcusable. A final comment I would say is that there were 
delivered writedowns and duplicity in the way they communicated. In our 
neighborhood, we had a transformer and live wires in the middle of the 
street about two houses down from an elementary school on a major 
thoroughfare. That happened on friday evening. It was reported about 
7:00 A.M., I would guess, on saturday morning. It was a really 
dangerous situation. Calling the pepco emergency live wire #, we have 
fiber people in my neighborhood who were told on monday morning that 
they were the first person to report these live wires playing in the 
street.
 
Again, all I can say is that is either gross incompetence or deliver it 
duplicity, but there is no excuse for it. Frankly, those are the kind 
of hard questions you need to ask. Why can you not get your numbers 
right and communicate accurately to your customers? That is all we are 
asking for. >> thank you. Ms. Janet hall.
 
>> janet hall . I would not even have come up here because the remarks 
I wanted to make were essentially what the previous woman said. You 
rely on  -- there is a huge issue with the information system. Does not 
exist, and she said. In our neighborhood, this is not the first time. 
We had exactly the same experience. This is not improved at all. This 
time, however, in that 100- degree heat, that lack of ability to 
collect and disseminate information led to a fire in our street.
 
We had wires down all six days that we were without power, and they 
were touching lots of different areas. They send power through those 
wires and the asphalt caught fire. We are lucky it was not on a bush or 
tree. this is not really inconvenience, we are talking about 
endangerment now. We had exactly that experience. I have documentation 
of this neighborhood for years now, and every average, over and over, 
we send them information via the web site and the mobile apps. There is 
nothing on the other end.
 
There is no tether. This has got to be part of what gets improved 
because if we cannot keep the power up, the restoration process has to 
change. It is hugely inefficient. I would just add to the other remarks 
about the pr campaigns, very frustrating. It is sort of in-your-face, 
we don' t have to do what you want because the only people we are 
talking to or the regulators. Pepco has been at the process all 
throughout the storm as well as afterward with the radio or pr 
campaign. We know that from a customer satisfaction experience, it is 
terrible, dreadful.
 
I am not sure why it would take four or five months for you to come to 
the conclusion that they are not doing what they are supposed to be 
doing. Thank you. >> thank you, Ms. Hall. To is next?  -- who is next? 
>> paula bienenfeld.
 
Thank you for the opportunity to testify tonight. I want to address my 
comments to my neighbors and fellow citizens more than you, and for 
want of a better term, activists. I do not believe it is possible for 
pepco, the public service commission, or the governor or county 
government to be effective in giving our county forward towards energy 
independence and reliability. As we know, pepco is an independent, 
publicly traded company. It currently trades on the new york stock 
exchange at slightly below $20 per share with the $62 million profit. A 
year ago its profit was $94 million. Its stock has gone up 10% in the 
last 12 months.
 
For thepsc , three of its five members were appointed by governor o' 
malley. He is running for President. Between now and 2014, he will need 
to raise hundreds of millions of dollars. I believe the woman from 
somerset also mentioned, he has received thousands of dollars from 
pepco or related organizations or individuals. My proposal to my fellow 
citizens is that we cut the cord and get out from under pepco. I 
propose we put together a fact based white paper and a strategic plan 
to get us from where we are today to energy independence. As part of 
that move, we can move from the greenhouse gas producing coal that is 
mined by mountain top removal in north virginia to clean, renewable 
energy as is happening in other places from the plant, in europe, 
california, even here in maryland.
 
Renewable means we have purchased power generated by means of the sun. 
We turn out our lights and run our air conditioning and produce zero 
greenhouse gases. That is the definition of sustainable. Some in the 
region have already begun moving in this direction. Prince george' s 
county purchased and installed a small wind turbines. The cost, 
$35,000. When it rains and the wind howls, knocking down the pepco 
lines, there wind turbine is busy making energy. It is a small turbine, 
but it is a start.
 
I have created a sign up sheet and hope that would be -- hope that we 
can create a sustainability workshop. We would like to hold a first 
meeting in September. Thank you, and I want to thank all my fellow 
citizens and activist, everyone who turned out and is working on this 
issue. I think this point, after years of hearing this kind of stuff 
from the public service commission and pepco, at this point, we are the 
only ones that can really prepare this, and I think we can cut the 
gordian knot. >> is next? >> mizner chris d. Wagner.  -- Ms.
 
Christy wagner. >> I know you have my letter on file because governor 
o' malley passed it to you and you sent me a five page letter in 
acknowledgment. Thank you very much. I would like to quickly address 
four points that were not in my letter and then to points that were in 
my letter. In D.C. And virginia, pepco is not allowed to increase rates 
in the wake of outages, but in maryland, they are. Why? No one at pepco 
or that pse has addressed how much money the hundreds or thousands of 
power restoration contractors imported here from georgia, florida, 
colorado, canada, and elsewhere costs, and who will pay for it.
 
Second concern, pepco said power restoration is based on population 
density. Well, population density should not be the sole consideration. 
I worked all through prep school, college, and rescue in colleges -- in 
nursing homes. Pepco should establish a priority list for nursing homes 
and individual homes having life preservation medical equipment for 
power resumption to them. The elderly are very fragile and susceptible 
to extremes of temperature, and even the stress by the sole fact that 
there is a power outage, that could kill them or give them a heart 
attack. I have a beloved parent, 17 years old. We have been together 
since he was 5 days old.
 
My little bird -- have a beloved parrot. His optimal temperature ranges 
69-85 degrees. it is almost 100 degrees during the derecho. In the 
winter outage, the temperature fell to 32 degrees. I slept on the floor 
of the bathroom just to make sure that my little bird would not die. 
Quality and maintenance of equipment is a concern. I am wondering, is 
the pepco situation analogous to our subway situation?
 
Our subway system has an alleged by span of 35 years but they have only 
lasted between 10 and 15 years and they broke down. Pepco buying 
inferior infrastructure yet making gargantuan profits? I live in a 
subdivision of kensington called park would, four blocks away from 
bethesda. I have owned a home out west for 19 years, where we have 
buried power wires. Despite hurricanes and what not, we have never, 
ever had a problem with buried power lines. Of course everything costs 
money to buy and maintain, but there is probability and possibility, 
and buried power lines have a lot less problems than above ground. 
Pepco keeps bellyaching that the cost of burying the lines would be so 
much more and they cannot afford it.
 
Here are 14 reasons, and you tell me honestly whether you think that 
burying power lines costs more than just the partial cost of overhead 
power outages, past, present, future, and the emotional, physical, and 
financial impact. Just consider, at deaths have occurred from various 
causes such as power lines falling on people while they are in their 
homes and cars, pedestrians, medical equipment failures causing death, 
traffic signal outages at night or in the daytime, food poisoning , and 
deaths of the elderly who are far more susceptible to extremes of 
temperature than younger people, and the aggregate of to of minerals. 
Physical injury and illness, including paralysis and traumatic brain 
injury, the cost of physical therapy and rehabilitation, hospital and 
surgical costs, mental health their fees, psychiatric and psychological 
treatment necessitated by the death of loved ones including pets and 
the injuries of loved ones or themselves. Number four, the deaths or 
injuries of pets and burial costs, property damage to homes, interior 
furnishings, automobiles, property such as storage buildings, a 
children' s play good man, etc.. Plouffe good replacement, refrigerator 
and freezer replacement, landscaping , removal of damaged trees and 
shrubbery and replacement costs. No. 9, increase in insurance costs for 
home and property, replacement cost of personal possessions and 
property when the person is not insured or partially insured. No.
 
11, businesses. Financial devastation caused by loss computer databases 
including accounts payable and receivable. loss of revenue for 
businesses. Coupled with the necessity to play it -- to pay employees 
for downtime even though they are not present and working. Employees 
loss of revenue. Some people do not get paid if they do not show up for 
work. Public transportation, people is automobiles became not rival did 
to some sort of damage caused by the outage.
 
Extra money spent for public transportation. Educational system, 
disruption of schedule, adding additional days on to the academic year 
that result from power outages. The benefits  -- I need you to wrap it 
up. >> thank you for your comments. Who is next? >> elaine arndt. One 
good thing about being at this point in the meeting is that I 
presentation is much shorter.
 
Five days without power, communication problems, customer service, 
lacking information, barry line customers didn' t -- not getting 
service and aboveground line customers not getting service. The 
robocalls with misinformation. I question is, after sitting through all 
these horror stories is, how much is enough? When is it going to be 
obvious that there is too much mismanagement, too much in confidence, 
too much of a record of nonperformance. I would like to say there is 
just a bad and cynical reaction from pepco. We got a letter in our 
neighborhood trumpeting that they had done a tree trimming, when 
nothing had been done. Our neighborhood was still full of the trees, 
and then acting as though tree trimming was an accomplishment instead 
of a routine maintenance activity.
 
This is the and I was shocked to see.  -- something I was shocked to 
see. I received a letter trumping there is a $1 million fine when there 
was a dividend. So sadly lacking in real performance. My message is 
that really we need to tell them that this is enough, and we have no 
one else to do it except through you. >> thanks for your comments. Have 
is next?
 
 -- who is next? >> members of the public service commission, we would 
like to make pictures storm responses more bible to the user and to the 
public service commission for analysis. Please required utilities to 
show what percentage of the outages occurred and overhead lines and in 
underground lines. Please include the charts of the research by 
underground service I supply lines or located overhead. Please require 
utilities to indicate how many outages were caused in overhead lines an 
underground lines that have problems during the storms so that we can 
better understand the different types of services provided by the 
utilities. Since 76.8% of pepco customers lost power in the June 29 
storm, something must be done in the future with these outages. To 
reduce adages in the pepco area, recommend that you please require 
pepco to a realm of 45 substations cut supply lines that were damaged 
during the 2012 star within two years.
 
Mccrary the pre-war are undergrounding for 309 areas that had the same 
significant damage. Consider having pepco underground all other 
substations instead of using tree wire are underground. If you do not 
require an underground the supply lines, have pepco start using 
concrete pole for feeder and supply lines such as those in ocean city, 
maryland. Consider replacing all bare wire on pose with insulated wire. 
When road to rebuild, require the lines be underground. Prohibit 
overhead lines crossing interstate roads . Page 66 of the report 
indicates fallen tree removal cost $331,000. Lightning damage, 21%. 
Flood damage, only 151 customers. 33% could not be explained in the 
report.
 
That wind damage as an additional category. Ken bode reports not at 
least be similar? It appears that only 1 gabbert 51 customers lost 
power from underground problems. The report indicates distribution 
transformer is replaced, can anything be done to provide more automatic 
switching the power lines to reduce the number that have to be replaced 
during storms? Can other people be trained to spot locations or causes 
of outages in need of repairs, such as employees of verizon, comcast, 
or retired utility workers? You have authority over them. They should 
be present during the storms and you can use them.
 
They should be trained to spot wires down. Thank you for your time. >> 
thank you, who is next. >> rajesh lakhiani. I live in downtown 
bethesda. I am a pepco customer and they are actually customer of mine. 
I represent a smart rid company based in maryland.
 
We do a lot of work with pepco, trying to help them with their 
reliability. They are investing a lot of advanced technology in 
applications that will allow them to be more reliable. From investing 
in smart meters to overhead and underground fault detection systems and 
distribution systems, pepco is truly trying to do some things to 
improve reliability, based on my humble observations. A move to three 
years ago from the san francisco bay area where I was served by pacific 
gas and electric. By comparing the utilities, the performance is nearly 
comparable period a utility has their problems. i work with many 
utilities around world and I can tell you from con edison to utilities 
in court, all of them have their issues. I am not saying that pepco 
should not have a plan to continue with their recruitment.
 
I do think some of the heat that pepco is facing is not completely 
warranted. The storm to get out the entire city begins her cities and 
they were able to restore power then by-seven days. Those people who 
worked on the lines were cut through very tough conditions and we all 
saw that with our own eyes. My recommendation is quite simple, to 
support pepco with their technological initiatives in things that will 
help with reliability. Technologies like this will help pepco in 
situations like this. An ounce of precaution is a pound of cure. I want 
to invite you guys to come and look at some of the projects we are 
doing with pepco so you get a better understanding of how this margaret 
works, and you can also make recommendations and help them with 
reliability issues.
 
I want to give you my contact information as well. >> thank you, sir. 
Who is next? >> jeff mandell . Thank you for having us this evening. I 
am a resident of potomac, a father of two children under the age of 
three. We lost power for 158 hours. I actually think there is a lot of 
merit to what was said earlier, that we should be looking for 
solutions.
 
I am not an engineer, not a cost-benefit analysis person. I don' t know 
how to fix pepco. The only thing I can do is honor your request that we 
tell you what happened to us. We know pepco is going to come and count 
every possible threat of good news that they can find or cobble 
together. We have lived in our home for 17 months. This is the second 
hour to of more than 100 hours -- the second outage of more than 100 
hours. It was already dark and there was no wind, no rain, no 
lightning, and suddenly, there was no power.
 
When I called pepco the next day after the power had been restored to 
ask what had happened, the initial response was, what do you care, the 
power is back on. When they finally told me what had happened, they 
told me that a tree had fallen on a wire north of our home, which is 
interesting, because during the derecho, one of the things our neighbor 
heard repeatedly was that there was a wire down substantially south of 
our home. When the things I would like to see happen is that I think 
homeowners should have a right to know where their power is coming 
from. I understand there are some real concerns about posting the full 
bring it in public access, but as a homeowner, given pepco' s repeated 
history of dishonesty, I have no way of knowing what is really going on 
with my home if I don' t know where the power is coming from. During 
the derecho , reps at petco would not confirm if the information was 
correct. The only way I ultimately got power back at my house was by 
disobeying a direct instructions from pepco and sitting at my house and 
waiting for a crew. Someone at petco excellent tell me that would be 
trespassing, sitting on my driveway waiting for a group.
 
One of my neighbors flagged down a crew for me. Pepco repeatedly tell 
me it was improper to interfere and said it would only be a hindrance 
if I was home. When the crew came, they were very nice. They were from 
mississippi. They tell me after looking in the backyard that I had 
power. This edessa I did not know how to use my circuit breakers. It 
was only because I was, and they were able to come in and figure out 
and solve the problem.
 
They diagnosed the problem as being where the line is connected to the 
house. I had asked pepco about that three days earlier and they told me 
it was not worth the time of accrue to actually check and monitor that 
there was electricity going into the electric there. They sat and 
waited with me for an hour after the call pepco twice and asked them to 
come. That ultimately broke the electric meter off my house. The tell 
me what they did basically was hot wire the house. The power came back 
on. The call pepco and said free power, and said they will be here in 
five minutes.
 
It took about 10 minutes longer than that. [Laughter] As others have 
stated, a huge part of this is not just a response time of restoring 
power. There are big storms and things will happen. I will leave it to 
others to understand the system is better about how much of that is 
based upon neglect and how much is based on honest problems, based on 
the storm. But the I.T. System is absolutely and unacceptable. We 
cannot plan our lives based on some abstract, arbitrary target that 80% 
of customers will have power back by a certain day, without any effort 
to tell us whether we will be in the 80% of the 20%. My wife and 
children and pets fled the state because it was not a sustainable place 
to live. If I had not been here:petco five, six, seven times a day and 
standing in the driveway to flag down a crude, it would have taken 
substantially longer to get power back.
 
I agree with those who said we need to get a priority list. I 
understand my power is restored in certain order . For those in 
neighborhoods were clearly the infrastructure is a huge problem, we are 
consistently at the end of the restoration time, there needs to be some 
kind of compensation. It cannot simply be living in an unlucky that 
code. There are not many apartment buildings in your neighborhood, your 
just out of luck. It will be at the very end. That was when I asked, 
what are the chances I mende 80% or the 20%. Someone finally said, 
looking at your zip code, you are probably in the final two%. There 
should be some kind of recompense. We cannot stay in our homes in that 
situation.
 
>> thank you very much. Who is next? >> joyce thomas. Good evening, 
residents of montgomery county and officials. I am here because on 
monday , I was in my bathroom. I had my eyes closed and will not open 
my eyes, my bathroom was dark. I could not believe it.
 
The electricity had gone off. Later on in the afternoon, the 
electricity went off again. I said my goodness, there is no storm, no 
lightning. What happened? So far I have not gotten an answer. The 
important thing is that when a storm is coming, we don' t have a 
warning. We do not get a warning from pepco.
 
We only know that the lights are off. When the lights go off, many 
times they stay off for a long time. Many times, it is  -- a person is 
affected based on health or medication, or maybe someone is just going 
downstairs in the dark and the lights go off. This could become very 
dangerous. I really did not know exactly what I was going to say 
tonight so I am just saying things as they come to my mind. One of the 
things that a lot of residents do is buy generators. A lot of times the 
generators are very expensive.
 
I don' t feel like a generator is the answer. We are paying for 
electricity. If a person has to buy a generator, they are getting into 
an additional expense. A lot of people by the generators, but it is a 
very expensive generator. One of the possibilities that I thought about 
four areas, certain areas in montgomery county, like ken pepco not put 
in some type of electrical system that will accommodate certain areas 
within the community, so that if the electricity goes out in a certain 
section of silver spring, this powerful source will take care of 
electricity as opposed to wiping out the entire community. I was also 
thinking that maybe part of the reason the problem is not solved is 
that May not be addressed to the right person on the right level at the 
right time. If you are in charge of an organization, many times you 
take the heat, but you should be prepared to take the heat or correct 
it so that the problem will not continue.
 
We are paying pepco. Maybe the company should be called pdp-slow , 
because they are slow at getting things done many times. If pepco wants 
to maintain their credibility, maybe they should get on the ball. The 
other problem might possibly be the competence of the individuals who 
are in charge . Maybe we should go back and look at the resume, the 
qualifications, and the experience. It just seems outlandish that pepco 
would have to wait until the lights go out and then run to all of these 
various cities to get assistance. They come, they have to be paid an 
exorbitant salaries. What is happening to our money?
 
What is happening to our convenience? What can be done to resolve the 
problem? I have heard a lot of comments tonight and perhaps many of the 
suggestions that have been made should have to be considered, just 
because you are in charge does not mean that you know how to solve the 
problem. Thank you. >> thank you, Ms. Thomas. This is next?
 
 -- who is next? >> ellen ryan . I have lived here in rockville for 19 
years. I think the power has gone out maybe 200 times during that time, 
a conservative estimate. Maybe 10 times a year. I have spent my entire 
career in magazines and I know how much a full-page ad costs, tens of 
thousands of dollars. If newspapers, television, and radio, anywhere 
close to that, how many times I have seen these ads, can you imagine 
how much those ads are costing? If those ads are congratulatory 
themselves and could be put toward infrastructure,  -- hardly anyone 
has talked about what I want to talk about, which is danger on the 
roads and outside of our homes.
 
It does not matter how long the power is out at home. I was on metro 
when the power went out. The train came to a halt outside the metro 
station. We limped into the station. There' s very little emergency 
power at the station. We were offloaded and the train did not proceed. 
Fare gates were propped open.
 
No one anywhere to go, there were no buses or taxis. Extremely 
dangerous, people got on their cell phones and ask their spouse or who 
ever to come and rescue us. Friends, asked  -- a friends house came 
from gaithersburg at midnight through downed trees and wires and lack 
of traffic light and made her way back up rockville pike, one traffic 
light at a time, avoiding ambulances. This was frightening. Completely 
dark, avoiding other traffic on the way back home. I got to where my 
car was parked at 12:45 and crossed eight lanes of rockville pike 
traffic in the dark. There is a lot of traffic at that hour.
 
I just wave my arms and pray that everyone would come to a stop, and I 
got across rockville pike and not to my car and got home at 1:00 in the 
morning. The next day, my short list was a cellphone court and it 
matches. It took two hours to get to three stores that were closed, 
because wires were down and roads were blocked. The road was closed at 
rockville pike. In two hours I gave up and went home. it was 
frightening to be outside. I will not say anything about the nursing 
homes that were without power and everyone else that was in danger out 
there but I want to remind you all not only of the danger of driving 
and walking around in the after  -- accidents and all that sort of 
thing, but the public service people, the fire and police and ambulance 
people who had to go out and do what they do . All this stuff would 
never have happened if pepco had been prepared.
 
Their job is to see this coming in be prepared for things that we did 
not know were coming. We should be the shareholders. >> thank you. Who 
is next? >> ray scannell. Thanks for holding this hearing and thanks 
for sitting there all this time. I live in takoma park since 1986. I 
have been in the petco world since 1980. I work in kensington maryland 
where I have worked since 1980 and I am on the customer advisory board 
wssc.
 
I know little bit about utilities, but not that much. My introduction 
to pepco in montgomery county was a blizzard about 25 years ago when my 
son was a baby, and we lost power. Everybody in our neighborhood was 
out and we gathered at one friend' s house with the babies in infants 
to try to keep them warm so that they would not freeze. I want to point 
out that I had just moved a few years before from having lived six 
years in vermont and upstate new york, places that are quite a burden, 
and I had been through one blizzard that lasted several days and never 
lost power. It was a shock to be in montgomery county next to the 
nation' s capital and find that a blizzard knocked out the power. We 
have a joke in kensington that the power fails when it looks like it is 
going to rain. The reality is that the power does fail when the wind 
blows.
 
We have had a lot of power outages and we have computer backups that 
the when the power fails.  -- computer back tha ups that beep when the 
power fails. We joked that we did not have to worry about the russians 
and the power failed because the power failed all the time. We were 
lucky in the recent power outage, we got power back in our part of 
takoma park on saturday. Other parts did not get it back four weeks. It 
raised in my mind the question, where have you been? Where has the 
public service commission then since isabel?
 
We were out for a week during isabel. We have that power outages all 
the time. I wonder, where have you been? my experience is none of the 
utilities' fear you, and they should fear you, because you speak for 
the people. Or you should speak for the people. But they are not afraid 
of you, and they should be. I have a few suggestions.
 
I think that you should order petco to bury their main lines. And to 
upgrade the grid. In our part of takoma park, which is right next to 
the city of washington, if the main lines were buried, from what I am 
understand, a 80% of the outages could be eliminated. If they don' t 
upgrade the grid, we are going to continue to pay the cost. If our 
costs exceed their cost, as many people have told you tonight, I am 
tired of being an externality. When I have to throw out my refrigerator 
because of food, it is not counted and expense for tepco, but it is an 
extent --  expense to society. Average is the worst guy in the best 
guy.
 
Right now pepco is the first --  is the worst guy. I want them to be 
the best guy. If they don' t achieve that, the psc should suspend their 
license to operate, frankly. [Applause] At minimum, you should insist 
on bigger cruise now, as the brother from local 1900 said, they have 
been cutting and cutting, their crews are inadequate for the work that 
needs to be done. If they don' t perform licensed public -- license 
public power. Let us take it over and run it. I have no illusions about 
public power.
 
In the meantime, don' t give them a penny. Do not let them put into 
their basic cost of their pr campaign, restoration, in the of what is 
supposed to be routine maintenance that is not. Do not put it into 
their cost. The not let them charge us for their incompetence. Finally, 
let me make three quick points. One of my colleagues is the only anglo 
living in a block of latinos in wheaton. Anybody -- everybody lock is 
spanish-speaking set him.
 
They did not have power for nine days. You can imagine if the rich 
folks or ignored, you can imagine the poor folks who do not even speak 
english. They are not being heard. Wssc, right after the outage, we 
went down and a group of us on the advisory board demanded to know, 
what about the water system? We were told that wssc had reduced in the 
past to put in a backup generator for the water system but they were 
now considering it because there had been so many outages at the next 
big one, they were afraid they would not be able to pump water. 
Finally, one thing you can ask wssc to do is segregate the repair 
funds. Segregate the funds that are supposed to go into infrastructure, 
investment, so that they don' t just turn around as they have in the 
past and say they are going to fix something, do not fix it, and give 
it to the shareholders or the ceo or the top officers.
 
Thank you very much. Who is next? >> my name is dorothy canter. I have 
listened along with you for three hours tonight and heard a lot of good 
things. I hope that in what you take down you will clean out these 
messages and use them for the future. I work for the federal government 
for a number years and I know how reports get written and then put on 
shelves. It is a time now not to do that.
 
I live in bethesda, maryland. After the June 29 storm, we lost power 
for four days. I guess listening tonight, we were pretty lucky. We 
constantly receive different messages from pepco about how long it 
would take. I did get some help from the congressman' s office, for 
which I am very thankful. Your neighbors or friends who are latinos, I 
guess they are not able to do that, but when you have education and 
experience, you do. Recently after the storm, I read that a pepco 
representative said that upgrading infrastructure to prevent -- could 
prevent 50% of the outages but increase the appeal of the average 
consumer about $2 per month.
 
The customers were unwilling to pay that amount. At $2 per month, it 
would take more than 10 years for the increased charges  -- we did not 
have refrigerated prescriptions are infants this formula or breast milk 
was lost burress --  for some people, it could take 50 years to recoup 
what it would take with the $2 a month surcharge. I wonder people 
really were opposed to that. I also read in the newspaper that four 
days after the storm, dominion power had restored 67% of its outages in 
northern virginia and baltimore gas and electric had restored 61% of 
outages, therefore bringing back 750,000 persons. On the other hand, 
pepco at that time had restored only 43% of its outages in montgomery 
county and D.C., restoring power only to 200,000 people. You can say I 
read it in the newspaper and it is not corroborated. Of also have a 
letter from the congressman -- the Chairman Of montgomery county 
council and he stated that pepco has significantly underperform remain 
in power after the storm.
 
This is more documentation, I am not just shooting from the hip. In 
2011, the pepco report concluded that pepco has meaningfully 
underperformed its industry peers on a number of broadly accepted 
metrics for most of the decade. The june 29 was the third major  -- the 
agenda 29derecho. This is my husband who is helping me. Continuing to 
use unusual weather as an excuse for extended power outages is just not 
acceptable. It should not be a acceptable to you, gentlemen. It 
certainly is not acceptable to us, the people.
 
Replacing outdated infrastructure with modern equipment and technology 
and then maintaining it is what is needed. I am also concerned about 
reports that I read about the ceo, the former ceo salary. Ceo joe reitz 
brt $8.8 million and pepco top officers are more than $22 million from 
2008 through 2010. During that same time, pepco reported $882 million 
in profits, paid no federal and state income taxes and received $870 
million in tax refunds. I am asking you gentleman tonight, I know you 
will not answer it tonight, but is this information correct? Why are -- 
what are top officers of pepco earnings this year? Will they be allowed 
to receive bonuses in 2012 after everything has happened? Is this like 
wall street' s and those companies?
 
I know you said this was not allowed because it is bigger than eight by 
12. I was at the bethesda metro subway station last week, and by the 
way, the metro is not in great shape, either, but at least with macro I 
can choose to take it or not. But pepco, I have no choice. I was about 
to get on a train and I saw this ad and I took this photo because I was 
just so outraged. And then I saved the photo and made the poster and 
pay a little bit of money for it, but it was worth it to me. The ad 
says we are already seeing results from our reliability work. Who are 
they kidding? And as this says, pepco still does not get it.
 
I hope seeing this, you will get it. Why is pat go spending so much 
money on advertising at this time when so much work is needed to 
upgrade and maintain the infrastructure? We need answers to that. Do 
not prove -- and not part additional measures should be taken and if 
needed additional laws passed. I know the red light is on. I have done 
a lot of work in peer review and I was involved and we used this 
mechanism to help bring credibility to allow people to go back to work. 
I recommend the mail and public service commission created and depended 
-- to evaluate pepco in a range of relevant factors.
 
Nominations for these members should be solicited from all 
stakeholders, including us, the consumer. This report taking into 
account the 2011 report, should be used in determining the steps to 
increase papago' s performance and reliability. The state of maryland 
owe pepco customers a fair stake. We are the people you must serve. >> 
thank you. Who is next? >> roxanne.
 
I am sorry. Roxanne. >> within a six-block radius. My name is roxanne. 
I will spell that. At it? I am a life- long resident --  resident of 
montgomery county, maryland.
 
I was born here. I have never seen this state deteriorate. If we had a 
terror attack today, we would not be complaining about pepco. We would 
be complaining we are not alive. This county council has got to take it 
very serious, including this commission and the state of maryland' s 
governor. You have to take it seriously. This is nothing.
 
What are they going to do in the winter when we are going to have some 
problems. God only knows what that will look like. I am ready to be 
prepared like millions of people in this state to read it. This is what 
has happened today  -- to this state. Maryland was a beautiful state. 
What have we done here? On the other hand, the first day that thing 
hit, this is what happened within a seven-block radius.
 
Wires were hot with trees sticking up in major streets throughout the 
wingate location. For four days, we could not get anything done. I 
called pat go --  pepco 50 times. They came out and they moved their 
ass and they started working. It would have never happened. We cannot 
live like less. This is hell.
 
The stories, I can hardly contain myself. I am very serious. This is a 
national security problem here in maryland and it gives -- it is the of 
jokes. How many talk shows have you heard that they cannot handle 
anything because they have pepco. We have to do better than that. We 
have a reputation to maintain to keep this state the best state there 
is. Also, to keep our citizens states -- safe.
 
They are not safe. I am asking you to pull their license and a move 
forward with a public utility as soon as possible until you can get 
several utilities in here to work several stations all brought the 
county, including other counties affected by this. It is not acceptable 
by May a 90% of the people up and 10% out. Anyone in this state -- is 
unacceptable to me as a citizen. That is all I will say. I am not 
complaining, but you people need to do better than to make excuses for 
pepco. [Applause] >> thank you.
 
Who is next? >> my name is arlene. B- r-o-h-n. I live in the bethesda 
neighborhood. I represent tonight a group called conservation 
montgomery. I am the chair for my neighborhood in bethesda. I am not -- 
I have worked for many years on tree issues. In 2009, I worked with the 
senator to spearhead a revision to the state roadside tree loss.
 
I am somewhat familiar with the laws governing trees along the 
roadways. I will speak a little bit differently from most of the 
speakers this evening. I speak as a tree advocate. Based on one idea, 
mainly that aggressive pruning does little to promote reliability. 
Regular, careful pruning is needed, but overzealous pruning leads to a 
tree decline entry failure and outages. Even on blue sky days. Printing 
has little or no positive affect in storms.
 
Pruning beyond appropriate manus is ineffective -- maintenance is 
ineffective. He indicated that pepco should step up its pruning 
activities. However, more recently, this opinion was revised and called 
for more moderate approach. In a communication to me, he stated, I am 
concerned that trimming and pruning not be overly aggressive or 
invasive or destructive to the character of the neighborhoods. At this 
point, I would like to disk -- converge a little bit from a written 
testimony and make comments about tree planting. There have been three 
or four people this evening to let indicated that they have been told 
they had to plant trees underwires. One of the things now in effect in 
roadside tree regulations is that people are being asked to plant 
small, short trees under wires and where there are no wires they at 
being -- they are being asked to plant large trees.
 
Please feel free to inquire later and I can answer your questions. 
Allow me to point out that extreme weather events will always be 
damaging, will take down trees, rip them asunder and taylor out many 
branches -- tear out many branches. It is inevitable as long as trees 
grow -- grow and storms blow in. I have witnessed many destructive 
storms. Hurricanes. Please recall that in the platte  -- in the past, 
when planning for future storms, officials never promoted pruning as 
ways to produce harmful impact. We have lost power, yes.
 
We had no options. Times have changed. the idea with -- of being 
without power today is unacceptable. Our technology-dependent cannot 
slow down for stars. Business depends on collective power. Recent 
storms have focused attention on our power problems. It did not take 
long for someone to come up with an innovative idea.
 
If big trees bring down power lines, it seems logical that more 
aggressive tree pruning could reduce tree failure -- power outages. The 
idea seems plausible. It is a cheap fix. Pat dough --  pepco charged 
ahead. Miles and miles of trees were pruned. The numbers are 
impressive. Every day, pepco' s at least people to expect that this 
will reduce power outages.
 
Has anyone asked if this is sound? Are the statistics relevant? This 
hypothesis was found lacking in a test. Aggressive pruning does not 
work. It especially does not work in severe storms. What is the 
immediate impact of aggressive pruning? It reduces life-giving shape, 
raises ground water temperature is, increases electricity consumption, 
and, by the way,  --  ignoring the need to reduce co2 output, pepco 
continues to promote tree pruning.
 
It is another means for pepco to increase profitability. Less shade and 
greater electric uses. If you take nothing else away from my statement 
this evening, please remember this -- pruning is not the path to power. 
Pepco cannot prune its way to safety or reliability. Pepco cannot prune 
its way to power. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. >> thank you.
 
>> my name is ronald. I would like to talk about a couple of issues 
about the recent storm. My electrical bill is to be $50 a during the 
wintertime. Two months ago, it was $90. The last month was $100.50 --
  $150. We lost power for a number of days. I was on the 12th floor of 
a 19 story high-rise apartment building where the area is --  power 
lines are underground. I have a couple of issues about that. I do not 
think putting all the power lines underground is the answer.
 
I think it makes the problem even worse. I will explain why. Because if 
it is above the ground, you can get to it real quick. It is 
underground, you have to dig it up, which takes time, then you have to 
find where the break is and repair it. That adds to a lot of expenses. 
The second point out like to make is we have a lot of people in our 
apartment building and I think if we could more publicized were cooling 
stations and heating stations would be if atoms are in the wintertime, 
that I think it is very important. About traffic lights, I think that 
is very dangerous for them to be out.
 
So many traffic lights were out. The montgomery poch --  montgomery 
county police had to stand two or three people at every major 
intersection to make sure the traffic flowed smoothly without causing 
major accidents. I think that is it. Thank you very much. Thank you for 
listening. >> thank you. Who is next?
 
>> margaret. >> market.  -- margaret. Thank you for the opportunity. 
Allied has been said tonight. I am probably one of the last people. I 
will not repeat the inconvenience.
 
I just want to say something about my own experience. I have a very and 
I leave -- I am a very naively the. Based on what I heard tonight, I 
have a wonderful experience. Many years ago, over 10 years ago, I lost 
my [Unintelligible] I called verizon. they send a man and 63 days 
later. Another day later, it was gone again.  -- and her three three 
days later . Another day later, it was gone again.
 
I will take your verbal complaint. The next day, verizon send me a 
supervisor. Not only fix to the problem, but fixed the problem in a 
more fundamental way. He was trying to tell me the original line, it 
will not be any get. He had to do something more than just put a line 
in or whatever. Therefore, I really have a superstition saying public 
service commission is so effective and after my phone was fixed, a vp 
in D.C. Of rise and called me and asked me a week later if my phone 
service was restored. I am just a nobody.
 
I got this kind of treatment. Therefore, I fully trust the public 
service commitment can be very powerful and affected. Pepco, finding 
them $1 million does not mean anything pared what is that to them?  -- 
anything. What is that to them? It is gang 5% dividends, and I compared 
several utility companies. The highest payout rate.
 
That is the -- not a good way to do business. That is a not good 
service model. I am a retired accountant. I know a company makes money 
because you do better, and you sell to your customers better. Pepco is 
not on the right route. Therefore, I think you guys are the ones that 
really should point this out to them. They know they fall under the 
current short-term next quarter report.
 
Thank you very much. >> thank you. Who is next? >> bail.  -- dale. >> 
d-a-l-e. I will make this short because most of the stuff I prepared 
has been covered. I will talk about one area that has not been talked 
about.
 
I am a resident of west bethesda since 1976. I have never seen some of 
power outages in my life. I developed a continuity plan to operate by 
business without power because it has become so prevalent. If you run a 
business out of your home with these power outages, you are out of 
business. I want to talk about something nobody has talked about, and 
that is the weather forecast and the ability to do preparations for a 
storm . I have an interest in meteorology, and I did some research, and 
I found out you can do some research. There was advance notice of the 
storm 12 or 15 hours before it hit washington, D.C. theft it began in 
chicago. They were getting power outages. While this is going on, they 
did a switch.
 
I do not see any company that could not see what was coming in the 
state of maryland. It was complete incompetence. I got the website, and 
I got pictures, and it showed winds of 80 M.P.H. You were sitting 
there, and you did not ask a question I think should have been asked , 
why did they wait for one hour after the storm hit to call back of 
crews. If you know a storm is coming in 12 hours and you have one hour 
until a storm hits to call for backup crews , and all the backup crews 
are getting hit by the same storm, so tepco could not get anyone to do 
the same work. There were live wires former four days after the storm, 
live wires one block from the house. I took a picture , it' s just like 
everyone said . Nothing was done. This is the record.
 
I have taken my family' s security in my own hands. I think they should 
be replaced based on their performance over 10 years. They aren' t in 
the and -- they are completely incompetent. i think you should be 
removed also, and that is all I have to say. >> thank you, sir. Who is 
next ? >> I am pat. I think I am last and two years ago, and you had 
one of these hearings.
 
I stuck it out. I would like to call your attention said they were not 
functioning for nine days to 11 days. They did not function properly 
after that to this day, so they should also be called out. Like most, 
we lost power, but we lost it for more than an hour, and I have been 
testifying over and over again, and writing letters, etc., about sri 
wire. It is a special insulated wire that does not short out quite 
ordinary wire does. If a transformer blows up, it prevents all other 
outages . Tree wire was installed on the west end of the avenue. This 
is of the special request of my significant other, who is a respected 
new utilities engineer.
 
There have been two significant outages on our end of the avenue, one 
when a transformer exploded. This is not the case in the east side of 
the park. They had no power for several days. I believed it illustrates 
that the activities have been curtailed. Then you would have a somewhat 
permanent solution rather than a temporary one. Our personal 
interaction has been horrible. They came to our yard and cut down trees 
and were protected by historic loss aws.
 
They plan to cut down all the trees despite a 2004 agreement with the 
preservation commission to get proper permits to any extensive tree 
cutting in a historic carrier, meaning greater than 6 inches in 
diameter and to get the proper permits to cut them down. I have seen 
this coverage over the past two years, and they have cut down 
critically historic trees in other historic neighborhoods, so it is not 
just my neighborhood . I remember when they were local men and women 
who cared about our neighborhood. I remember one particular blizzard 
when I tried to give some hot chocolate because they were of there for 
12 hours , and they told me pepco was trying to buy people off, and 
they mentioned they would upset people in the future. I think they do 
very dangerous work. Good as state of maryland should be able soon 
rejoin the state of maryland should be able to make it higher. This is 
not to criticize the efforts of the out of state crews who came from 
their homes and did very dangerous and dirty work. I asked the 
commission, community first and profits last.
 
Also as we talk consumer economics, I would like to know how you get 
nominated to serve on the commission, because I think some of us might 
have good ideas that could help all the types of utilities, all their 
work in the state of maryland. >> who is next? >> wayne taylor.  -- 
dwayne taylor. Dana hudson taylor. Tandy . >> my name is berni . The 
board members and members of the community, a lot has been said, and 
most of what I wanted to say, some of the items have already been 
spoken. I live in the area since 1985. Nearly every year we have a 
outages three or four times.
 
My area is so forested, and I belong to the forested community when 
you' re a good  -- community. Now in June, the lights come in, the 
afternoon in July, six and a half days but we have no life 
picnicghts.  -- no lights. Members of the community have of me to 
figure out what we can do, what we can learned , and what is going on. 
The street behind this is beverly' s 3. The street across from us is 
forest grove. This other street behind us have flights. The street 
behind us has lifes, and the street I live on has no lights, and when I 
talk on the phone, they say, why are you the only one calling feminists 
--  the only one calling?
 
We do not get complaints from anyone. You called yesterday, and you 
call today. Unfortunately for me, I retire. Sometimes we do not have 
the energy. Some even left because they could not stay there, but I 
could not leave zero good -- I could not leave. Do not take away the 
branch. If you shoot the trees away from the tree and the wire is below 
that, that will fall and cut your line, and it happened exactly like I 
said.
 
We' re just going to shoot it and get it through. Members of my 
community have come to the conclusion pepco knows what they are doing. 
They are doing it just to keep money, and tonight I have a few 
observations. I ask members of the board to come up with a communique 
of this meeting and send it to all members of our community so we will 
know, because I know the purpose is not to call all of us here. If 
tepco had gotten new employees who were able to listen, they would have 
gotten all the facts we have to night. They do not want to listen . 
Sometimes somebody told me the montgomery county governor does not want 
anybody to bury the cable on the ground . I will not tell you my name. 
If I tell you my name I May be fired from my job.
 
What I want to ask tonight if is is it true the government will not 
allow any electric cable to be buried underground? Sitting on the chair 
for three hours, some of us have told you it is not easy to bury it on 
the ground. That is not true. Anything that is good has a cost to pay. 
If you want to destroy this house, you can destroy it, but you cannot 
build this house in one day it. It has to be put in in order to get 
something out. We are living in the world of modern technology.
 
it is very easy for a cable to be buried in the ground, and they can go 
straight and 66. You cannot compare -- and fix it. You cannot compare 
one thing. All of it is better on the ground. How many times have they 
got no water to drink because it is too hot ? The only time in 
montgomery county, yes. The only time you can live water is if you do 
not pay the bills. You have water all the time. The electricity will be 
cut off each time.
 
We have so many trees in our area . I appeal to you, please come to our 
area, did the ground and put in all the cables. Position number one, 
please very the cable on the ground -- don bury the cable on the 
ground. Is there an organization in montgomery county but agreed they 
should not contribute towards the election. You will not be working for 
us. You will be working for them, and therefore, you cannot say 
anything. You can do anything. You are scared.
 
That should not mean a thing. Good conflict of interest. Good number 
three, this commission should be able to regret the amount of money 
paid to each President Any time the airlines go off -- to each 
residence any time the lions go off.  -- the lines go off. There is so 
much they will go through, and that is why we do not want it. Nothing 
is changing. We are beating a dead horse, and we do not want to 
continue to do that.
 
Good >> who is next? >> tom harker. Mart vine dickerson? Morris coen. 
>> morris cubern. I will not go through a lot of the things I' ve 
prepared common because they have been covered many times, but there 
are a few things but have not been covered, and mostly it is about 
pepco holdings. It is much like a company in texas called enron that is 
very similar.
 
Their income is only from dividends , from atlantic city. Those are 
their sources of business, and pepco is the largest. Their only concern 
is profits and dividends . The three senior officers, commissioner 
rigby is the Chairman, and he made 3.1 million in 2009, 3.6 million in 
2010, and 7.2 million in 2011. the senior vice President Made a 1.5, 
2.2, and 3.1. Velazquez, four. To cure your the total went from 6 
million 14 and a half million in six and a half years, and what did 
they do? They did not increase the value of stocks. It was for 80% of 
holdings between 2006 and 2011 a. Somehow they are able to justify 
these kinds of salaries . Everything else, their expenditures for 
equipment and what not have been flat over the same time. The only 
saying -- thing debt has risen is their salaries . You have 
responsibility, which you are not taking seriously.
 
You could stand on your hind legs and the next time pepco, for a 
license to operate in maryland, simply say no. There are plenty of 
utilities that could easily take over the operations, and also pepco' s 
pr campaign, it means lizzie borden asking for mercy because she is an 
orphan , so if you have any self-respect whatsoever, you can stand up 
and tell them no, no more. It has been 10 years since coming back here. 
Come back here now in two years. If you do not do something you will be 
back again, and your successes will be back again later for the next 
century, and nothing will have changed. Good >> who is next seminar --
  next? >> lawrence, bill.
 
>> bill wydro. I appreciate your criticism and share the a anger at 
profit taking and infrastructure and their pr expenses, but I do have 
some suggestions on what to do to survive these power outages, and I 
will admit this was an extraordinary circumstance. There are things we 
can do that can help. First and foremost, they have got to have some 
kind of triage team that responds . We have all had those observations 
. They do not have to come out with six of them. That is too much to 
ask for, but they could at least come out and quarter and that dwyer -- 
cordon that wire. We have seen those down four days, not even being 
marked off . We have seen the crew responding to another issue, and one 
of them saw the wire was live and felt obligated to stay there for six 
hours because it was unattended. he finally just left.
 
Good no one else came. Get people out there. Mark these places off. 
That is a public safety issue that is easy to take care of. About 
traffic and handling intersections when the lights are out, I saw it 
was just two stop signs put up in the middle of an intersection, one 
facing road and the other facing those perot. That helped remind people 
they did have to stop because the light was out. A little high- tech, 
and I do not see why we cannot do this, it could be a backup battery or 
a rechargeable battery, something that is charged with electricity, but 
on traffic lights at critical intersections, and there is no reason why 
we could not make a list and put up a backup system so when the 
electricity goes off, our kicks in and power that now until something 
else can be done, at least.
 
Maybe that is not practical, but at least you could get the light to go 
on a flashing red and yellow like they sometimes do after midnight. It 
seems that is the basic step that could be taken. I sought at least one 
case I know of where there was a live power lines down for two days. 
There was major traffic, so a policeman was signed for the area , and 
there were police assigned rotating 24-7 to make sure nobody went 
through. It seems to me like there could be trained people who would 
come out in cases like this. There are crossing guards who help people. 
We have a bunch of guys with pickup trucks who put a plow on their 
truck, and the county uses those on a supplement.
 
It seems to me there could be a group called upon to monitor cases like 
that of places not blockaded office and not to take a policeman' s 
time. I agree with stan, the multiple sclerosis person, and there were 
a couple of others talking about handicapped people and people on 
medical equipment fed requires electricity. It seems to me there might 
be a system that can be developed to make a predetermined , and they 
have one of these shelters and have places for people with medical 
conditions that need electricity . Maybe a section of all hospital, but 
it seems to me something could be setup to address these issues with 
medical equipment. This is a little further down the list, but there 
are a lot of us with smartphones and computers to wear down the 
electors in -- who wear down the batteries . There is no reason we 
cannot maintain that. We can work out some kind of system where we can 
power your devices. There are accurate answers. There was our response.
 
I understand when there was on high volume. I am sure they are filled 
in and giving reports about what is going on. There has got to be some 
kind of communication or way to communicate with the public about what 
is happening, what is fixed, and what is not an these power outage 
mouth aps. You cannot contact the people in emergency cases when you 
are out of town. You can make decisions on whether to cut short your 
trip or vacation and, and attend to it, or say I Miss That and continue 
on , so those are some of my suggestions about what the county could do 
to make surviving these things easier. >> who is next? >> herera.
 
>> mitsuko herera. The good news is I am the last speaker. I thank you 
for common ing. I do work for montgomery county. Like many of my 
neighbors, I was out of power for four days. My house mates 80-year-old 
father was with us, and i have had many debates with friends about our 
beautiful trees and the many wires that hang in our neighborhood. It is 
most likely a fact of life we are going to continue to have these types 
of storms and that outages are going to be a regular occurrence until a 
long- term solution, so I would like you to focus on three short 
things.
 
One is prioritization of repairs. I live in woodside on second avenue 
near what used to be a post office of georgia ave. There was a large 
tree that fell, and while the neighbors slowly got power back, there 
were 40 or 50 homes affected because there was a large tree that pulled 
down a line. There was also power out on georgia avenue between 16th 
street and forest land, which is on either side of the beltway. When 
the crews came out, and they were very nice, and they had driven of 
thought today,  --  driven that day. They said they usually did not 
deal with the second lines, but they had to bring in a new poll, and 
they worked and restored power, and the power came on before the power 
on georgia avenue. Good the power affected traffic and business and gas 
stations.
 
They had a list of where they are supposed to do repairs. they are not 
from the area, and they do not know what the big tree and what needed 
the big st. And the small street, so I would like to know how they can 
prioritize. We want to know if there are major intersections where they 
affect traffic signals. How are those prioritize? They did not have a 
sense of collapse -- a sense of that. The other thing is coordination 
of utilities services.
 
We all use the same polls. I did not see any of the repairs . Many were 
waiting for power to be restored, so how much coordination is occurring 
. There are a number of people aware that even if you are not using a 
telephone in your home , unless you have are copper line telephone, you 
will not have service, and for some people they May not have service as 
well. Go there are many people who would like to have it restored . It 
can be prohibitively expensive to have a phone in your home you are not 
using, so I would urge you to take a look get the most basic service 
that verizon or anyone else wants to operate, and is there a way to 
prices it so people can have of a backup communication system, which is 
very important as well, because it does seem pepco is relying on people 
to report those particular outages to fix the problem. I thank you for 
staying until the bitter end, and I thank them for their work. Did you 
can find this hearing online. Thank you. >> is that the end of the 
list?
 
Is there anyone else who has not had a chance to speak who would like 
to speak? Going once, going twice. Thank you, everyone for your 
comments and experience. We have got them all. It is

